Devolution is perhaps the best gift given to us by the 2010 Constitution.It provides a medium through which we can equally share national and local resources to achieve balanced development in all parts of this country. Through it, our diverse communities and regions can now manage their own affairs and development.It is, therefore, surprising that instead of focussing on ensuring devolution works, Kenyans are being treated to unending power struggle between senators and governors under the guise of parliamentary oversight. The other day, it was Kisumu Senator Anyang Nyong o going for Governor Jack Ranguma. Earlier, Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko went physical on Governor Evans Kidero. And when we thought it was done, the acrimony between Murang a Governor Mwangi Wairia and Senator Kembi Giturs brought to an abrupt end a Senate Public Accounts committee session. This supremacy struggle is expected to intensify as we approach the general election many senators have declared they will run for governor.Three fundamental governance questions arise from this supremacy battle: Should the counties account for the public funds devolved to them? If, so, who should represent them in providing the required accounts? And to whom should whoever is accounting on behalf of the counties be accountable to?The first question can only be answered in the affirmative. Good leadership, integrity, transparency and accountability are national values and principles of governance. Every person entrusted with public funds must account for their proper use. The demand for prudent and accountable use of public funds by the county governments invites no debate and can never be termed idle. The ounties must account for public funds committed to their charge, to a coin. Although the obligation to account for public funds is mandatory, must it take a governor, and no one else, to account on behalf of the county? This question must be answered in the negative.The Constitution establishes 48 governments in Kenya: The national government and the 47 counties. Like the national government, the counties are complete with executive and legislative arms. The governor is not the county government or devolution: It is just an office. While the Executive arm of the national government comprises the President, the Deputy President and the Cabinet appointed by the head of state with the approval of the National Assembly, the executive authority of the county is vested in, and exercised by, a County Executive Committee, which consists of the governor, the deputy governor and the executives appointed by the county boss with the approval of the county assembly.At the national level, the President is never summoned to Parliament to answer to questions relating to use of funds by his government, not even public funds devoted to the Office of the President or State House. Instead, it is Cabinet Secretaries, Principals Secretaries and other accounting officers who are summoned to account for the prudent use of these funds. The President cannot be expected to know how money is spent in every ministry or department. Similarly, accounting for expenditure of funds granted to the county governments is the work of the county secretary, executives and county chief executive officers, not the governor. These are the officers involved in the day-to-day administration of the devolved funds. The governors would do nothing else if they were to be required to personally appear before the Senate and the National Assembly each time the counties are to answer audit queries.