Twenty-one students at Pumwani College of Maternity and Midwifery have moved to court to quash their suspension from the institution.The students say they were handed suspension letters after they confronted their principal because they were served with rotten food.They say the college administration promised to look into the matter but did not do so.On October 6, the students raised the complaint again but were called into the principal s office, only to be handed with suspension letters.Court documents indicate the suspension letters were issued after the students were accused of taking part in an illegal strike, a statement they have denied. We were shocked by the decision, as it was erroneous based on the facts. The finding was incorrect and irrational as no strike took place, they say.Through Lawyer Peter Mugalo, the students want the office of the registrar s decision overruled.The registrar acted on the October 6 recommendation of the college s disciplinary committee. The suspensions range from 2-6 months. They say the disciplinary committee was biased. We were not even given a chance to be heard. This is against the principles of natural justice. That is why the action taken by the the disciplinary committee ought to be quashed, they say. The process was tainted with double standards. No reasonable person or body directing itself on the law and facts could arrive at such a decision. The documents state the disciplinary committee failed to act fairly and exercise its administrative action as provided by the Constitution.It is not clear why the decision was made and why the suspension periods vary.The Pumwani Maternity School of Nursing and Midwifery was initiated to train nurses and midwives. The institution offers diploma in midwifery and post-basic midwifery courses. The students say they are bound to suffer, as they were to sit their exams from November 3. Those sued are the office of the registrar academic, the disciplinary committee and the Nairobi county government, under whose management the facility falls.