Warders find it difficult to handle 41 &ldquo;proud&rdquo; death row convicts and 4,000 capital offenders, who ridicule them for failure to kill them. Courts sentenced the 41 to hang less than a month after President Uhuru Kenyatta commuted death sentences for 2,747 prisoners to life imprisonment.The convicts are being held in various maximum protection prisons countrywide after they were found guilty of capital offences. Each is guarded by seven warders. Assistant commissioner general of Prisons David Macharia said warders find it difficult to handle them.&ldquo;The uncertainty over whether or when they will be killed puts more psychological trauma and brews indiscipline and truancy among them because they feel they are special. Sometimes they would ask a prison warder, &lsquo;why can&rsquo;t you kill me if you are man enough?&rsquo;&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We are dealing with people who know that they are only waiting for death. There are many frustrations and I have seen warders break down.&rdquo;Capital offences such as robbery, treason, robbery with violence, terrorism and oathing for criminal activities are punishable by death.Inmates on death row do not take part in correctional or rehabilitation programmes, including parole. They also do not engage in other activities such as farming, making vehicle registration plates or any form of economic activity within the facilities.&ldquo;There is a dilemma in handling death row convicts because we can&rsquo;t do this [kill them] and they are living in prisons for an indefinite length of time,&rdquo; Macharia said.&ldquo;We want a clear cut. Either we do this [kill them] or do away with the death sentence. Because unless we get the final warrant [from the President] we won&rsquo;t do it, therefore the convicts continue to wait for the hangman.&rdquo;He said the &lsquo;I don&rsquo;t care&rsquo; attitude of death row convicts makes them engage in crimes in jail that affect even those outside the prisons and pose a danger to warders and fellow inmates.Justice Jessie Lesiit, the principal judge in the Criminal Division, said a convict she handed a death sentence for armed bank robbery in Thika in the 1980s killed a warder by smashing his head, then ate his brain.They spoke at a workshop on assessing public attitudes towards the abolition of the death sentence.The workshop was organised by the UN Human Rights Office, Kenya National Commission on Human Rights and the Power of Mercy Advisory Committee.Macharia said prisoners place a huge economic burden on correctional facilities.