World Sevens Series top try scorer Collins Injera will miss the two opening legs of the series in Dubai and Cape Town.Announcing the squad yesterday, head coach Innocent Simiyu. He said Injera s strength and conditioning levels are at par with the rest of the squad though he has been named as non-travelling reserve for the two opening tournaments. Injera had a busy workload from the last Sevens series to the Olympics and we have had a chat and I hope by the next couple of weeks, he will be fully fit, added Simiyu.Sammy Oliech will also miss out as he continues to recover from a hamstring injury picked during the Impala floodlights. Oliech has not been cleared to play by his club Impala. He needs to play a few Kenya Cup matches then resume training with us, added Simiyu.Simiyu explained that Ouma, who fell sick before the team travelled to Namibia for the Safland Sevens a fortnight ago, is not yet to in good physical condition. We expect him to be fit for the third and fourth legs of the world series in New Zealand and Australia in the new year. According to the tactician, Oscar Ayodi is recovering from a knee injury. KCB s Darwin Mukidza and Kabras playmaker Brian Tanga have been granted their debuts.Mukidza has been an integral player for the Kenya 15s for the past three seasons at fullback and excelled for KCB in the Sevens circuit recently. He is also a good kicker and defender.Tanga has been knocking on the door of Kenya Sevens for the past two seasons. He played pivotal role as Kabras clinched the Kenya cup last season and played for Kenya sevens developmental side in Amsterdam, where he impressed as the team lost in the final to Sussie Saloon. Kenya face Japan, Australia and France in Dubai. Simiyu said they have set a target of 10 points for each leg. We have been given a target of 10 points so if we can get to the Main Cup quarters, it will be satisfactory, he added. Simiyu said the areas they have worked on in training include support play in attack defence and kickoff reception. Those three areas had challenges in the Safland Sevens tournament in Namibia and we have rectified that and we hope to do well, added Simiyu.The tactician said he wants to expose younger players as his long term goal is to win gold at the Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast in 2018 and the World Cup Sevens in San Francisco in the same year. We are building a foundation for the future. We have good crop of talented young players and we need to build the future around them, he added.Kenya Sevens boycotted training last week, owing to bonuses from last season but the government stepped in over weekend and promised to pay the striking players Sh13 million with the union committing to pay further Sh8 million.Kenya Squad: Dan Sikuta, Brian Tanga (Kabras); Martin Owila, Andrew Amonde, Darwin Mukidza (KCB); Frank Wanyama, William Ambaka (Quins); Leonard Mugaisi, Cyprian Kuto, Augustine Lugonzo ( Homeboyz); Billy Odhiambo (Mwamba) and Nelson Oyoo (Top Fry Nakuru). Management: Innocent Simiyu (head coach), Ian Gibbons (S&amp;C coach), Lameck Bogonko (physio) and Erick Ogweno (team manager).