GATUNDU South MP Moses Kuria may have shocked the Kikuyu elite when he told the community on a vernacular FM station that they needed President Uhuru Kenyatta more than he needed them. When the first-time legislator accompanied Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto on their tour of Central on Monday and yesterday, he got a thunderous applause and a warm reception at every stopover, to the chagrin of local leaders. Kuria s unending defence of the President has seen some Central Kenya Jubilee supporters start whispering that the vocal MP, who faces several hate speech-related charges, is a man to watch. ===A JP hopeful for the Dagoretti North MP survived a kichapo cha mbwa from angry boda boda riders on Sunday for failing to honour a promise. The aspirant was to pay them and fuel their motorbikes during his campaigns. The more than 300 riders and the aspirant s supporters escorted him to the Kawangware PAG Church, where he also promised heavy finical support for a modern church. It is said the hopeless aspirant was forced to escape from on a motorbike as the charging mob pursued him. Word has it that the mob resorted to setting his campaign T-shirts ablaze.===WHO, exactly, is protecting assistant county commission Alex Mutua Nakamet based in Namanga Town? He was arrested by the EACC for demanding a Sh100,000 bribe from members of the Mailua Group Ranch to settle a dispute between two warring factions following a disputed election. We are told the EACC is facing challenges in having him take a plea after a senior government official vowed not to allow it to charge the administrator. The Commission has even obtained a warrant of arrest, but the senior government man is adamant and tells the police not to arrest the wanted Nakamet. Is this not impunity? Can the real Inspector General of Police stand up and take action?===THAT excess sycophancy is punished in ODM is not in doubt. After an opponent wrestled Homa Bay MP Peter Kaluma, an ardent supporter of party leader Raila Odinga, to the ground, Kisumu Town MP Ken Obura had no kind words for the MP under siege. He was overhead in Parliament telling his Kitutu Masaba counterpart Timothy Bosire that uncontrolled sycophancy is punishable in ODM. He bragged about having successfully hosted President Uhuru Kenyatta in Kisumu, the ODM bedrock, but Kaluma, a perceived ODM diehard, was punched right in front of Baba and nothing happened. He appeared to suggest that he better remain a rebel and survive than become a loyalist and be roughed up by supporters.