National women s football team, Harambee Starlets coach David Ouma has predicted a tough match against Mali today after both teams lost their opening Group B matches in the ongoing Africa women s Cup of Nations in Cameroon.Mali lost to title holders Nigeria 6-0 on Sunday at the Stade Municipal De Limbe in the first match before Kenya went down 3-1 to Ghana in the second match at the same venue.Both teams will be seeking to get their first win of the event and revive their chances of making it to the semi final stage and Starlets coach is confident his side will be all out to snatch all the three points. We already recorded the first goal of the event in our maiden appearance and it will be fulfilling to record the first win, noted Ouma.Ouma added that the players have recovered from their loss against Ghana and were ready for the match against Mali.He said: The players have recovered and are fully focused. Sometimes, it s not easy to come from the situation we were in during the Ghana game but I am happy the players are mentally strong and looking forward to the Mali match. At the same time, I am happy there are no injuries, and we can only hope for the best. Ouma noted that the Kenyan defence slacked in the second half of the match against Ghana and they have been working on that department in their training sessions. From the analysis, our defence slacked in the second half and we want to tighten the loose ends going into tomorrow s (today) match. Again if we happen to score first in the match, then we need to hold onto the lead to the end and bag the three points. What s important is the three points and we hope to get that from Mali and see what happens from there. In pool A hosts Cameroon lead the group with three points having won against Egypt 2-0 on Saturday. They were scheduled to play against South Africa, before Zimbabwe who had played to a barren draw against South Africa, take on Egypt in the second match at the Stade Ahmadou Ahidjo in the city of Yaounde.