Miguna Miguna has dismissed a video clip of an exchange with Esther Passaris during KTN's Jeff Koinange Live Show.In the clip the Nairobi governor aspirant is heard saying "everybody is raping Esther...Esther is so beautiful... everybody wants to rape her ..."Passaris, who is also an aspirant for the seat, did not take the comments lightly."You are so sick...You are so jealous and I can't even look at you... really...really... you are so disgusting," she said.But undeterred by the "soft" words from Passaris, Miguna went on talking while gesturing at the camera person who was recording the video."You are chasing men all over... Esther, nobody wants you. ..you are too old... nobody wants you..who wants you ../who wants you...?" he asked her."Esther... nobody wants you ... you think you are beautiful... you are not." Miguna told Passaris that all she has is the colour of her skin."It's just colour...Esther, it's just colour... Without the colour you are nothing...you are absolutely zero...you are zero...you are not beautiful... You have nothing...," said the lawyer."The cartels who think you are beautiful... they sent you here."Koinange and the crew are seen unshaken and laughing at the argument.But Passaris, who got more furious as time went by, told Miguna off saying: "Get used to the idea that you will never be the governor.""Shut up, really...you are so racist...," she added.And in a post on twitter on Thursday, Passaris further urged women not be discouraged by men like Miguna."Men like Miguna have no place or role to play in our empowerment. He is part of the problem. Let's be even more determined to take our place at the table," she said.Passaris said women are not perfect but continue striving for more."I encourage women not to shy away from leadership for fear of victimisation, character assassination and prejudices of patriarchy," she said.But Miguna said via Twitter that some parts of the video were omitted."The video omits the portion where Passaris accused me of rape... She did not specify whom I allegedly raped," he said."The cartels are out in full force with falsehoods, propaganda and threats. Let's stick to the truth."Here is his full statement: Read: Miguna Miguna hints at vying for Nairobi Governor in 2017