A group of unknown people on Sunday evening attacked the family of Mvita MP aspirant Mohamed Tenge Salim and smashed one of his cars. The group of about 20 youth descended on Tenge s family house at Majengo Sega area of Mvita constituency at around 7pm.Tenge was not at home at the time, as he had escorted Deputy President William Ruto to the Moi International Airport after the Jubilee rally at Tononoka grounds earlier.The rowdy youth attempted to break into the house where Tenge s family members, mostly women, were watching TV. They had machetes and rungus. They pelted Mheshimiwa s house with stones before they got into the compound saying they have only one leader in Mombasa, said Johm Osimbo, an eye witness.No one was injured in the incident.On Monday, Tenge, who was joined by Nyali MP Hezron Awiti and Kongowea MCA Jabess Oduor, said he will not be intimidated into abandoning his political journey. I was born in Majengo. Fear is not in my vocabulary. I will soldier on, said Tenge, who connected the attack to politics.Awiti and Jabess, both alleged victims of political threats and intimidation, said security agents must guarantee security to political leaders and the common citizens.More on this: Joho is out to silence me, MP Awiti alleges Hooliganism in Mombasa has reached a level that cannot be ignored, Awiti said.He said insecurity in Mombasa is starting to creep back in and blamed it on the upsurge on political godfathers who "shield suspected hooligans".He said hooliganism must be condemned whether it happens to a friend or an enemy. I am Corded but I condemn such things. Democracy is about selling your policies and letting the people decide, the MP said.[VIDEO] DP Ruto dismisses Cord as failed, 'NGO' coalition as he woos Kwale vote for JubileeHe called on security agents to investigate the matter and arrest and prosecute the perpetrators and their paymasters. If the security agents don t pursue you, we will pursue you to your houses because we know you, said Awiti, who has declared interest in succeeding Hassan Omar as Mombasa Senator.Oduor said security of residents and leaders is a sensitive matter that can easily degenerate into an unwanted situation. If you don t protect the people, the people will protect themselves and it will be bad, said Oduor.Tenge is seeking the Mvita MP seat on Jubilee ticket. Awiti is in Wiper while Oduor is in ODM.Police arrived at Tenge s house shortly after the incident and recorded a statement from him.They said investigations have been launched.