President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday launched phase three of the Sh1 billion Sigor Wei Wei irrigation project in West Pokot county. The project is funded by the Italian government in collaboration with the Kerio Valley Development Authority.Uhuru, who was with Deputy President William Ruto, said the project would significantly reduce perennial famine and cattle rustling. He said the government is committed to fighting poverty and restoring peace inthe Kerio Valley by starting irrigation projects. Our aim is to ensure residents along the valley live in peace and engage in income-generating activities through development projects, such as the one we are launching today, Uhuru said.Speaking at the Wei Wei Farm in Sigor constituency, he said the project will increase food security. Uhuru criticised the opposition for engaging in what he called a political witch-hunt at the expense of services.He said most opposition leaders at one time served in government and held senior positions, but they have nothing to show Kenyans. Uhuru said some individuals are hell-bent on impoverishing Kenyans to advance their selfish political motives. There are some, whom I do not want to name but they are called lords of poverty, who are not interested in development because they want to use poor people all the time for their selfish ends, the President said.He said the Jubilee administration has started development projects in energy, infrastructure, health and water to transform the lives of Kenyans .Uhuru said when the Jubilee administration came into office in 2013, only 2.3 million Kenyans had been connected to electricity in 50 years, but three years later, more than 5.1 million Kenyans have electricity. He said the expansion of two hospitals to referral status in every county aims to ensure efficient health services. Ruto said Kenyans will judge the Jubilee administration by what it has done for Kenyans, unlike the opposition, which is focusing its energies on propaganda. He said they will not be distracted by allegations and falsehoods peddled by the opposition.