Ngong Road outfit however, are level on pointsKenya Harlequin stayed joint top of the Kenya Cup standings with a 24-10 victory over Nondies at the Jamhuri Park showground over the weekend.The Ngong Road outfit are level on 20 points with KCB and Impala after securing a 49-8 win over Mean Machine and 42-39 victory over Homeboyz respectively but have superior goal aggregate over their rivals.The eight time champions mastered the wet and slippery conditions to come way with the bonus point win over a lethargic Nondies outfit . Quins started strongly dictating play and it came as no surprise when prop Dennis Mugambi barged over the line from a rolling maul to give his side a 5-0 lead. The Quins forwards led by skipper Tony Mutai, Joseph Kangethe, David Ahawo were superb in the close quarter battle in the opening half hour and carried the ball strongly. It came as no surprise when from another lineout hooker Frank Khalwale dived over to score an unconverted try to give his side a 10-0.lead Quins scrumhalf Godfrey Jatelo Okoth looked lively in open play and linked up well with his partner Isaac Adimo at flyhalf alongside Patrice Agunda and Pius Shiundu as they tormented Nondies in the first half. Mugambi scored Quin's third try with Shiundu converting to give his side a 17-0- lead. Quins secured the bonus point try when Khalwale scored his second try and Shiundu converted to give his side a 24-0 lead at the interval.Nondies came out firing in the second half with substitute Fielden Sinei and George Odipo leading the onslaught with burly no 8 Simon Ngugi crashing over the line to reduce the deficit to 24-5 Nondies camped in the Quins half for long spells and got their second try, courtesy of skipper Cedric Odera. Nondies rallied for a third try but poor decision making and handling errors saw them miss out on a losing bonus point Quins coach Dominique Habimana was satisfied with the performance of his side. We mastered the conditions well and started strongly though we had lapses of concentration in the second half, added Habimana Nondies coach Christian Josiah lamented the side's poor start which denied them a chance of victory. We started slowly in the first half we did not have possession and missed tackles," added Josiah Champions Kabras stayed in fourth position with a hard fought 19-15 victory over Nakuru at the latter's backyard. Kabras trailed 9-7 at the interval and fell further behind in the second half but two late tries saw them pick an unlikely win Blak Blad stunned Strathmore 27-22 to earn their first win of the season similar to Mwamba who beat Western Bulls 55-10 at the Railway club. .