Chief Justice David Maraga yesterday instructed the Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Division to create an electronic tracking system to monitor the status of corruption cases.On October 18, President Uhuru Kenyatta blamed the judiciary, the EACC, the Auditor General and other agencies for the sluggish anti-corruption fight. He said he had already done everything he possibly could.The new CJ said he will ensure the judiciary is not blamed for failures of other arms of government. The electronic tool, a master cases dataset, will enable agents of the EACC and the Director of Public Prosecutions to monitor case status by computer. It will prevent the disappearance of files, which has often stalled cases. Speaking during a council meeting for the Administration of Justice, Maraga urged judges to prioritise the war on corruption and pledged to put it atop his agenda.&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve made a public commitment that fighting corruption will form a significant part of my transformation agenda. I&rsquo;m determined to succeed. So please don&rsquo;t fail me,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;The judiciary won&rsquo;t carry any institution&rsquo;s cross. We&rsquo;ll work on our own internal weaknesses that are, in some instances, quite acute.&rdquo;Maraga said he and judges are tackling the thorny issue of injunctions, often sought by corrupt suspects to shield themselves against prosecution.&ldquo;I&rsquo;m having discussions with judges on injunctions, delays in litigation, frequent adjournments, poorly considered bail decisions, bond and sentencing &mdash; issues that have exposed courts to abuse by the corrupt,&rdquo; he said.Maraga said he will gazette wide-ranging practice directions to eliminate forum shopping. This practice is used by some of the accused to have their cases heard by courts and jurists they consider mostly likely to deliver favourable verdicts. A daily anti-corruption court bulletin will be issued so the public knows exactly who and which agency are responsible for which case. Maraga has urged the EACC and police to improve the quality of investigations. &ldquo;Don&rsquo;t bring up cases that are designed to fail. I have asked our judicial officers to make commentary on cases of this nature so the blame can lie squarely where it should,&rdquo; he said. A raft of measures by the CJ comes at a time when the President has accused the judiciary of being the weakest link in the fight against corruption. However, this was rejected by the judiciary, which blamed the police and the EACC for doing shoddy investigations and bringing weak cases to court.