Former Limuru MP Peter Mwathi and former Kiambu TNA coordinator Gladys Chania have dismissed claims that Central residents plan to boycott the general election.Mwathi said this is propaganda by the opposition, which claims the Jubilee government has not improved infrastructure in the region.The parliamentary devolution trainer said the opposition is trying to employ all means to win the presidential election after realising Jubilee has support from all corners of the country. The opposition is convincing Jubilee supporters across the country that Central is frustrated by the government and most voters will not participate in the general election, Mwathi said. They want supporters outside Central to reconsider their stand, but they are warming up to vote in the Jubilee government again. Chania said Jubilee has backing from across the country and its supporters should not be worried. NEW STRATEGY When JP was formed, it was meant to end politics of division and tribalism. As it is now, all our supporters in the whole country will know the truth, she said. A strategy to revamp JP campaigns, during which supporters will be told the truth will be employed, and the opposition s lies will be exposed. The two were speaking in Mabroukie Stadium, Limuru East, on Sunday, when they attended the finals of Mwathi Foundation Football tournament. Shooting Stars FC won the tournament. ATTEMPT TO TAINT LEADERSMwathi said the opposition is trying to taint the names of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto, and discredit their work.Mwathi, who contested on the Democratic Party ticket but lost to incumbent John Kiragu of TNA in 2013, said he has dropped his bid for Kiambu governor. He said his supporters urged him to run for MP. I had declared I would run for governor, but my supporters complained a lot, telling me that I can t win the seat and instead I should seek the parliamentary seat, Mwathi said. I have decided to run for MP, and I m asking for your support. Chania has declared she will run for Kiambu woman representative.The opposition and the government are tearing into each other as the August 8 general election approaches. Cord has accused the government of failing to tame rampant corruption, which has led to the loss of billions of shillings in taxpayer money.The government, however, says it is committed towards fighting corruption and all culprits will be brought to book. Uhuru has repeatedly said no other government has demonstrated a stronger commitment to fight corruption than the Jubilee administration.