A Murang'a court yesterday issued an injunction stopping the launch of Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau's manifesto launch today at Mumbi Grounds until a case by two residents is determined.Senior resident Jesee Masiga issued the injunction after Dennis Karanja and Harrison Gatitu filed an application, saying the event would bring skirmishes.But county commissioner John Elungata refused to receive the court order from lawyer Karanja Ngugi. David Muraya, an employee of the lawyer was told to take the order to Kiharu deputy commissioner Kepha Marube who after reading it referred him back to Elungata's office, where he was thrown out.The order lists the Murang'a county government, the county commissioner and Jamleck Kamau as the defendants. But Kamau is also said to have gone to the High Court in Nairobi to have the order by the Murang'a court quashed.Earlier yesterday, Kamau had declared said his unveiling of his governor manifesto will go on as planned at Mumbi Grounds in Murang a.This is despite the county government dumping tonnes of manure at Mumbi Grounds and Murang a University Grounds. Kamau and the guests are expected to land at the university grounds today. Come what may my manifesto launch will go on as planned at Mumbi Grounds, which we booked and paid for to the county government and police have permitted us to hold the event, Kamau said said.He urged his supporters to turn up in large number to listen to his five-year plan for Murang a county. Efforts by the county government to heap tonnes of manure at Mumbi and Murang a university grounds will be rendered futile as the meeting will go on. Those flying can land in other grounds like schools, Kamau said.He said he has invited many local, regional and national leaders to the event. Kamau said Murang a Governor Mwangi Wairia is desperately trying to stop the launch. Kamau said Wairia is panicking and fears to lose the seat.The MP said he has intelligence report that some goons were planning to wear my t-shirts so that they can have their way to near the dais to cause trouble. Police, my security and thousands of my supporters are prepared to deal with any security challenge that may arise. We have even deployed drones to hover all over to ensure maximum security, said Kamau. He said final touches work was going on on the ground.He told Wa Iria to exhibit political maturity. He said Murang a people were not deaf or blind. Wa Iria will pay dearly for his primitive action, said the long serving Kigumo MP and former cosmopolitan Minister.He said his plans to bring Murang a county back to its former economical, political and social hub. I will also ensure all the public property and cash stolen is repossessed and those involved brought to book, he said. He said all corrupt people should be behind bars.