A group of Kibera youths on Saturday disrupted an event presided over by Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero. Kidero and Nyayo Highrise MCA Maurice Akuk had gone to the Undugu grounds in Kibera to hand over 23 water tanks to youths and women s groups. But youths heckled Akuk. We want Akuk to go. Akuk must go because he has let us down. Even in today s event, no local leader was consulted and that s an insult to us, a resident said. Akuk was not allowed to deliver his speech. But Kidero addressed the youths. He said, These tanks will help you store water for future use so you can have clean water. Maintain them so they can be of help to you and your children. The tanks have a capacity of 10,000 litres each. Local leaders urged Kidero to start income generating activities for the youth. Water provision in the slums has been problematic due to illegal connections. Kidero said he will organise a harambee for women s groups to start projects. As soon as he completed his speech, he was whisked away by his security detail. The youths then rolled away the tanks. In the process, some tanks were destroyed and some cars were damaged. Over the years, the Kibera slum has been known for flying toilets , where locals would help themselves in black polythene bags and toss them onto other people s rooftops, out on the streets and into drainage trenches. NGOs and the government have started projects to replace the flying toilets. The improper disposal of human waste has been blamed for frequent outbreaks of diarrhoea and water-borne diseases in the slum. Until financial scandals rocked the National Youth Service, the government planned to build 182 communal toilet blocks in the slum and some had already been completed. There was also a Swedish firm, Peepoople, that last year used Kibera as a testing ground for the Peepoo, a biodegradable, single-use toilet that could one day provide a cheap, smart fix for the world s billion slum dwellers. Reports have stated about 17 million Kenyans lack access to safe drinking water. The majority of them are from the Northeastern region, some parts of Rift Valley, Eastern as well as the Coast.