Is this the week of humiliations? First, I find myself all over the Internet with the now infamous sex tape. Somehow, the heavens smiled at me and Eric did not see it. But now, because of Frank s meddling, Eric has caught me red-handed in the ladies room with Frank. He has just walked out. Frank is gone, too, after making some sarcastic comment about whether I still want him. I splash my face with water and try to calm down. Think! Think! Think! Crap, there s no way I can get out of this one. My skirt was around my waist. Frank had his hands all over me. Eric saw it all. Freaking fantastic. What a disaster! Okay. So I won t try and get out of it. Attack is always the best defence. Buoyed with new resolve, I retouch my lipstick, straighten my hair and walk out of the ladies . Frank is sitting on his bar stool, wearing a smirk as I walk past him. Bastard. I don t say anything to him. I turn the corner and I m surprised to see that Eric is still there with a glass of champagne in his hand. I approach cautiously, not quite sure where this is heading. I hesitate when I reach the table. Can I sit? I ask. Of course, he responds, taking a sip from his drink. Well, that was embarrassing! I say. Was it? I found it quite amusing, he responds. You re not upset? I ask, surprised by his reaction. I never said that, he says carefully, placing his glass on the table. Look, Eric, I say, kicking off my offensive. It s not like we are in a relationship yet True. But this is a date, is it not? he asks. One expects some decorum, no? No! I bumped into you in the mall and you offered to buy lunch! I say. So this is just two friends hanging out? he asks. Eric, I say, softening my voice. I like you. You know I do. But you re getting out of a relationship. So am I. You two dated? he asks. We were engaged, I say. I remember when I found out through sneaky means about how Eric s girlfriend terminated a pregnancy. He was devastated. That will be my angle now. The truth is that I m pregnant, I say. My words are sincere. Well, clearly that s the only truthful thing that ever comes out of my mouth these days. Frank wanted me to terminate but I don t believe in abortions, I say. Eric looks stricken. I knew this would affect him because of his own personal situation with his girlfriend. Eric came to my home one morning loaded on cheap wine and whiskey. I made him breakfast and he proceeded to pass out. Some girl called his girlfriend and I answered the phone. We talked briefly. She sounded quite hurt that I was in the picture. I wanted to make sure she never called again. As he snored softly beside me, I quickly sent her a text message using his phone. Me: I heard you called. That s my new girl you spoke to. I don t need to answer questions about us, so I d appreciate if you respected my wishes and new relationship. Stop calling and texting. It s over. Her: Wow. A text message? Seriously? After five years that s all I get? You can t even be man enough to talk it out?Me: Stop being pathetic and move on as I have. Her: Did you think I was pathetic when you begged me to keep your baby? Wow. This is when I realised that this was Eric s almost-baby momma. Her: You cold-hearted bastard. We are totally through. I m sorry that I ever met you. And I m so glad that I terminated that pregnancy. Rot in hell.