In the last couple of weeks, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has been put on the defense in what appears as a deliberate effort to discredit it. Various politicians have made statements that not only undermine the independence but also sets the country on a dangerous path.Let's first reflect on the history of our electoral system. After the poorly managed 2007 elections, Kenyans got together and said that there was need for radical electoral reforms. After millions spent on the Kriegler Commission, Kenyans set up the Interim Independent Electoral Commission which conducted the 2010 referendum that gave us a new Constitution and the IEBC.The smooth conduct of the referendum saw the IIEC transform into the IEBC and started preparing for the 2013 elections. Despite protests by the opposition, IEBC was hailed by local and international observers for how it managed the elections which ran smoothly other than the failure of some electronic equipment.It is in the nature of human beings to blame everyone, other than themselves when they lose, especially in an election. We have seen this with the recent by-elections in Kericho and Malindi where the losers have called for a new electoral body.The same calls have been made by the opposition after the documents they presented to the IEBC revealed that their referendum initiative was not supported by enough registered voters as required by the law. It is not IEBC's fault that the opposition could not get the one million valid signatures or Kanu fairly lost in Kericho and Jubilee also couldn't convince Malindi voters that their candidate was the best.The attacks on the IEBC for doing its work is not healthy as the country prepares for the next election in just over a year's time. Creating doubt in the ability of the IEBC to conduct free and fair elections is also the wrong route to take as a country.It would also not be wise to call for the replacement of the commission at this time. This would be akin to throwing the baby out with the bathwater. Institutional memory is key and we need to look at IEBC's evaluation of the last elections and the strategic plan launched last year to assess the gaps that need to be bridged.It is important that we work together and ensure that all the gaps that were identified in the evaluation of the last election are bridged. This is the only way that we can build a strong and independent IEBC. We cannot have a strong electoral body by constantly attacking the institution.If there is impropriety by any individual, we should deal with them individually while maintaining and enhancing the institution. Individuals should be held accountable without breaking the ideals and principles of the institution.That said, we also must throw a challenge to the IEBC. Kenyans gave you a job and they expect it to be carried out efficiently and effectively without fail. Kenyans expect nothing but integrity of the commissioners and IEBC staff, and a properly managed free and fair election in 2017.There is no room for mistakes from the IEBC whether in the preparations of the elections or in the conduct of the polls. The billions of shillings pumped into the electoral body from tax payer s money should not only be well utilized but must also be used to deliver credible elections.The IEBC must also be at the forefront of dealing with those, inside the institution, that either abuse their offices or are involved in impropriety. The ghost of the alleged Chickengate scandal must be dealt with without fear or favor and should not be allowed to cloud the preparation and conduct of the next election.Respecting the independence of the IEBC, building trust around it and enhancing its credibility will go a long way in helping the country achieve free and fair elections come 2017.