William Ruto may put on a brave face about the influence of Kanu chairman Gideon Moi in parts of North Rift Valley but insiders say he is deeply concerned and wants the Senator neutralised.The Deputy President hosted a meeting of leaders from Baringo county at his Nairobi office last Monday primarily to discuss Gideon and his influence in Baringo, Pokot and other parts of North Rift.Gideon's supporters, some of whom attended Ruto's meeting, now say they are worried at what exactly the scheme entails."When they talk about neutralising Gideon, is it just politically or are there other issues that we should be concerned about?," one MCA told the Star.Baringo Governor Benjamin Cheboi led the delegation. MPs William Cheptumo (Baringo North) and Moses Lessonet (Eldama Ravine) attended together with several MCAs.The meeting resolved that the DP should facilitate a retreat of Baringo leaders to strategise on how Jubilee Party can win most of the seats in the county in 2017.Kanu Secretary General and Gideon's bosom friend Nick Salat telephoned the two MPs to express concern about the meeting and to seek assurances that the Kanu chairman will not be harmed.When Ruto opened the Kabarnet Agricultural Show that was held between October 13 and 15, he held a side meeting with leaders, where Monday's meeting was planned."The elected leaders asked for a meeting to discuss politics and pending projects," an MCA said.On the agenda were the Marigat-Muchongoi road, Kabartonjo-Barwesa road and the Kiboino-Salawa-Barwesa road. They also wanted assurances that the second phase of the Kirandinch Dam project, involving the construction of a sewerage system and water distribution, was on course. In addition, the leaders wanted guarantees that the community would get more government job appointments, and that the DP to push for the construction of the Baringo Technical Institute.When the discussion shifted to how to convert Baringo into a Jubilee Zone and ensure Gideon's Kanu candidates all lose, the DP is said to have told the politicians to lead the process and he would ensure it succeeds."The DP said he would do everything within his power and go out of his way to ensure the strategy is a success. The DP, in his usual dismissive way, said Gideon is not really a threat but more of a nuisance who can't shake Jubilee. But you could see from his body language that he is concerned and wants Gideon out of the picture," the MCA said.Ruto committed to visit Baringo several times ahead of the 2017 elections to talk to voters directly and add weight to the campaign.However Kanu has continued to harvest defecting ward representatives, the latest being Kolowa MCA Solomon Makal and Ripkaa MCA Daniel Tuwit who both defected from URP in Tiaty constituency. From Baringo South, two Jubilee MCAs also defected - Marigat MCA Isaiah Kibowen alias Nanga, and Mochongo MCA Jackson Kabarkei. The other two wards in Baringo South, Makatune and Njemps, are both held by ODM MCAs, hence Jubilee has no MCAs in the area."In Ruto's mind, Baringo has turned into a Kanu zone. If it was inconsequential, would he concern himself with this flurry of activities?" asked one of the MCAs.Gideon also has a strong support base in West Pokot where Senator John Lonyangapuo of Kanu is expected to easily trounce Governor Simon Kachapin who defected from Kanu to Jubilee in July.Former minister Samuel Poghisio has been lined up by Kanu to replace Lonyangapuo as senator.Gideon's native Tugen have even questioned why he appeared to take the Pokot side in the dispute over whether Kapedo town, rich in geothermal reserves and with a large Pokot population, is in Baringo or Turkana county. Gideon has accepted the maps that show Kapedo is in Turkana.However, experts believe concerted efforts in Baringo by Ruto can turn the tide in Jubilee's favour.Gideon has lost the support of some influencers in the county. Former PS Edward Sambili could not secure any government position because his wife, Prof Hellen Sambili, was elected as Mogotio MP on a Kanu ticket. It is only after she announced in July that she would defect to Ruto's party that her husband was appointed Chairman of Kenya Revenue Authority last month.Wealthy businessman Joshua Kulei also supports Ruto, even though Gideon's father, former President Daniel Moi, propelled him from being a prison warder to the corridors of power where he because a billionaire. Kulei, who has always felt disregarded by Gideon, spent a fortune in the last election financing both Ruto and opposition leader Raila Odinga. He is now embroiled in several disputes with the Moi family over property they jointly own.It is through Kulei's influence that East Africa CS Phyllis Kandie, from Baringo, was appointed to the Cabinet.Gideon has also failed to spread his influence beyond his home area, particularly to the populous South Rift. Critics accuse him of being more interested in business than politics and failing to revive Kanu despite the immense advantages of his wealth and name."This coming election is do-or-die for Gideon politically. If he fails to secure a significant number of elective seats at Governor, Parliament and county level, he risks becoming irrelevant in 2022. If Ruto is running for President then, that would not be the right time to try and influence the Kalenjin voters who will be euphoric about the presidency that will then be in sight," a senior Baringo politician said.