If you are one of the many Kenyans who gasp in disbelief when you get your monthly electricity bill from Kenya Power, how would you feel if this situation was reversed?How would you like it, if it was you who got to send KPLC an invoice for power consumption every month, and threatened to cut it off from your power supply if you were not paid in time?That seemingly impossible scenario is actually not that impractible at all. And if you live for another 10 years or so, it is possible that you may get to see it happen.Last week, I explained how the ascendency of Donald Trump to the US presidency may well signal the end of President Barack Obama s Power Africa initiative. This is a scheme for helping millions in Africa to get access to affordable and reliable electricity for their homes and businesses. What I did not explain, however, is why it may not matter too much if Power Africa hits a brick wall, and that we have other options. For it is not only the US which has an interest in helping millions of Africans to gain access to power. Events in Europe have for some time shifted towards making domestic as well as industrial power supply not only cheaper, but also decentralised.As I once noted in a blog I wrote when in Berlin where I attended a workshop on clean energy, Germany to take just one example has for some time been moving from an energy system dependent largely on nuclear and coal as sources of power, to one entirely built on solar, wind and other renewable sources of energy. Along with this is a focus on achieving greater energy efficiency. The policy had actually been long in the making, going back to a decades-long debate on the future supply of German energy requirements. This was a debate greatly influenced by Germany s ambivalence towards nuclear power in particular. And ever since legislation for this new policy was enacted in 2011, a number of interesting results have followed. First, thanks to enormous demand in Germany for solar panels, the transfer of manufacturing from Germany to China and the resulting economies of scale in Chinese manufacturing centres, there has been a 70 per cent drop in the cost of these rooftop solar photo-voltaic panels. This development effectively allows individual homeowners, as much as owners of large commercial buildings, to generate their own electricity from sunlight, more or less for free.Then the giant wind turbines that can generate industrial-scale power have now achieved about 20 times greater productivity than they had just a decade or so ago.What this has led to is a situation where wind and solar power are cost-competitive with conventional power-generation technologies, even after we allow for backup costs, as well as the expense of integrating power from such sources into the supply grid. Of particular interest to those of us in the tropics with plenty of sunshine all year round is that solar photo-voltaic panels will soon be the cheapest electricity generation technology. This is where Kenyans could suddenly realise they are not only consumers benefitting from very cheap power but potential suppliers of power to the KPLC as well. Perhaps the best way to explain this technological revolution is to compare the power sector with the telecoms sector, in which Kenya is already more or less on par with the more advanced nations of this world. If someone had told any of us who were old enough to make telephone calls in the 1980s, for example, that a day would come when the old fixed-line, rotary phones would be museum pieces, that in time just about everybody would have a mobile phone and that these hand-held devices would have dozens of other useful applications, surely this would have appeared as a hallucination, and not a realistic projection of the future of telephony. And yet here we are. But it s one thing to paint a rosy future for the African power sector: The question I will answer next week is How on earth do we get there ?