DEPUTY President William Ruto yesterday said the Jubilee Government would not protect anyone linked to corruption.Ruto said the government would make sure all those responsible for misuse of public resources are made to account for their misdeeds.Speaking when he presided over a fundraiser at Kaaga Methodist Church in Meru Town, Ruto said the Jubilee administration will ensure that all those who have misappropriated funds are held accountable. Ruto urged the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, Directorate of Criminal Investigations and Directorate of Public Prosecutions to crack the whip on all those engaging in corruption. We want to ask the agencies dealing with issues of corruption to move with speed and prosecute those behind the theft of public resources, irrespective of their status or political affiliations, said Ruto. He added that public funds must be managed prudently for the work that they are allocated to do and that the administration will not protect anyone who is working in the government and has been mentioned in graft. The Jubilee Government will not protect anyone and if anyone is alleged to have misappropriated funds they will carry their own cross and we will make sure all workers in the government who have been involved in the embezzlement of public funds face the full force of the law, he said. Earlier in the morning, speaking in Kuresoi South constituency, Nakuru county, where he officially opened the Keringet Africa Gospel Church, Ruto accused Cord leader Raila Odinga of being the chief mastermind of corruption in Kenya. We urge the anti-graft agents not to spare any corrupt leader involved in scandals of swindling government money at all levels, he said. The DP accused Raila of attempting to conceal how he benefits from the public coffers in the counties under ODM governors. This cash is meant for development but Raila hurls dirt on the Jubilee Government to conceal receiving corrupt payments. This guy did nothing while he was Prime Minister, and he is a proven corrupt leader. We as the Jubilee Government have constructed the standard gauge railway and procured medical equipment for all referral hospitals, supplied electricity to Kenyans, made maternity free and paid examinations fees for both class 8 and form-four candidates for the three years we have been in government, he said. Ruto said Raila is now confused and lacks any means of convincing Kenyans to vote for him against the Jubilee Government that has transformed lives. But Speaking at Waondo Primary School in Mbita constituency, Homa Bay county, yesterday afternoon, Raila said he is not corrupt as claimed by the Jubilee leaders. He said he was MP for Lang ata constituency for 22 years, where he did a lot to improve the welfare of ordinary people. Raila said he would not stop criticising the Jubilee administration on corruption. I will appreciate Jubilee when they have done something good, but from the way I see things, they are continuing to loot public funds. So I will not appreciate that, said Raila.