A depleted Kenya A team put up good fight before going down by three wickets to Zimbabwe s club side, Takashinga in their second match of the 2016 Uganda Quadrangular series in Kampala on Monday.The Kenyan side came into the match against a strong Zimbabwean side comprising a couple of ODI experience players, yet made their 184 all out nearly a winning total on a flat batting track.Some poor catching and lack of self-belief seemed to have cost the Kenyan side as Takashinga coasted to 186-7 in 28.4 overs despite a mid-innings jittery.Opener Charles Kunje (47) and skipper Roy Kaia (45) shared a third wicket stand of 64 to orchestrate the win that also gave them a 100 percent win record in the event and handed Kenya their second loss after having fallen to Uganda Select XI on Sunday.Pushpak Kerai had a good bowling show with three big wickets for 25 runs in five overs while Peterson Kamau, Emmanuel Bundi and Rahul Seedhar all claimed a wicket each but they could not unsettle Zimbabweans as boundaries rained at Lugogo Oval.Kenya had an early laugh in the second inning when Harrison Ambani ran out Innocent Kaia in the second over with the board on nine. Tymcen Maruma and Kunje partnered for an over before Kamau got the second wicket by having Maruma caught on one.This opened up for Kunje-Roy Maruma s stand of 64 runs in just eight overs. The two got the boundaries with so much ease to try and take the game far away from the Kenyan boys, who had shown no fear attitude to the experienced players some of whom have even played Test cricket. After facing 30 balls that included nine boundaries and a six, Kunje was the first to fall to Kerai when he was caught by Aman Gandhi. Before Takashinga could digest on the loss of Kunje, Kerai made it four down with the wicket of Maruma for one off three balls.Roy and Mutizwa were, however, able to solidify the chase with a fifth wicket stand of half a century (52) stand in 7.3 overs. Kerai once again came in to breaki the stand when he dismissed Roy on 45 from 44 balls that included three sixes and five fours. Seedhar and Bundi then dismissed Westone Masakadza (18) and Tapiwa Mufudza (11) inside four overs to leave the Zimbabweans on 166 for 7 after 25 overs before Richard Ngarava (10) gave Mutizwa (25 not out) a hand to win the match with 21.2 overs to play.Earlier Kenya had recovered from 44 for 4 to post 184. Aveet Desai (42), Seedhar (32) and Gandhi (24) were the chief architects of Kenya s revival. Seedhar, who was promoted up the order to opener, saw Kenya lose six wickets for 116 before he fell. After his fall in the 31st over, Gandhi and Desai batted with a lot of caution to ensure Kenya played all the 50 overs.