NYATIKE MP Edick Anyanga was overjoyed last week when a section of his constituents visited his home and showered with him gifts for a job well done by the two-term MP. The gifts ranged from cows, goats and chickens to bags of beans, millet and sorghum. Some even brought firewood as a token of their appreciation for their MP. A gratified Anyanga has in turn passed on the gifts to the needy and elderly. The MP has now been telling his opponents to read the signs of what they should expect in 2017. **** A parastatal chief has left tongues wagging after hiring a nanny from England so the children can be taught how to pronounce words and speak the Queen s English. The ardent admirer of English culture, mannerisms and table manners, has got colleagues, friends and neighbours wondering where he gets the Sh600,000 for the nanny s monthly pay, at a time when the parastatal owes its suppliers millions of shillings. Corridors has been told the boss has strict instructions to the secretary not to let suppliers into the office. But even with a mountain of unpaid invoices, the boss is always on international trips, hopping from one capital to another. **** THAT politicians and cowboy contractors are using the dreaded anti-terror police unit to threaten, harass and intimidate critics is now not in doubt. A popular businessman in a Northern Kenya county is caught on tape threatening to unleash the police unit often accused of extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances. This time, the target is a fierce social media county critic, who accused the businessman of colluding with officials from the Governor s office to siphon off millions of shillings donated by a European nation. Is the ATPU now becoming a force out to settle scores? **** THE fast-approaching 2017 August polls to end the Eleventh Parliament s five-year term have caused some MPs to lose interest in House business. Reason? The possibility of many MPs getting reelected is fast fading, forcing them to only show up in committees where they can sign for sitting allowances. Word has it that the MPs are afraid of their rivals whose popularity is gaining ground like proverbial wild fire and are spending more time on the ground to redeem their chances of reelection. Corridors is told many legislators did not show up in Parliament after it resumed from the one-month September recess and when it went on a short two-week November recess. This has on several occasions thrown Parliament into a quorum hitch.