Apologetic Mumias youth, who caused a fracas at Shibale last Friday, have said they did not intent to disappoint Cord leader Raila Odinga and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya.Their representatives Faraj Faluma and Musa Ekaya said their intention was to "discipline" MCAs. Some MCAs have failed to understand we voted them alongside the governor and other leaders, and have been the governor's "flower girls". They follow him wherever he goes, doing little in their wards, Ekaya said.Speaking to the press in Mumias town on Sunday, the two said the role of MCAs is to represent the electorate in the county assembly, ensure county funds are used well and make laws. "But some of the MCAs do not understand their mandate," Ekaya said.He said Raila is a respected statesman who is free to visit every part of the world and is welcome to Mumias.Raila and Oparanya were visiting victims of police brutality in search of seven guns stolen from the Mumias police station.The youths accused Oparanya of neglecting them, when they were being harassed and beaten up by GSU officers who left majority of the residents injured, women raped and property lost.An MCA was serioulsy injured during the fracas and the windscreen of Raila's car damaged. The chaos that erupted at Shibale aimed to show both Raila and Oparanya we are fed up with MCAs following the governor wherever he goes, Faluma said.He said Mayoni MCA Libinus Oduor has achieved little in development, compared to the neighbouring wards.Ekaya said the MCA worked with former Mumias Sugar Company managers and is to blame for the company's predicament. He was awarded a contract to repackage sugar at the factory. He hired youth for the casual job but never paid them. Youth are so bitter with him Ekaya added.Faluma complained why Mayoni ward was less developed compared to Koyonzo despite the wards getting equal share from the county government. In Koyonzo, there is a new market center, three health centers and ward offices constructed through the ward development fund. But in my Mayoni ward, nothing is happening. Where does the money meant to develop Mayoni ward go to? questioned Faluma.He complained of Mayanza road which he claimed is in dilapidated state three months after it was done. The road was only graded by his proxy company and left with a very shoddy completion he said.