Taita Taveta senator Dan Mwazo has endorsed Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka to be the Cord flag bearer in the coming general elections.Mwazo s announcement on Saturday at Voi is proof that he is no longer in good terms with ODM Party leader Raila Odinga.This latest move further keeps the County electorate guessing whether he is still in ODM or he has jumped ship to Wiper Party.Mwazo was elected senator through an ODM ticket after serving as Voi MP for one term. I am here because my friend Kalonzo Musyoka recognized me as the area senator and invited me to attend his rally. Some people have been coming here without informing me as the area senator, Mwazo said in reference to Raila Odinga without mentioning his name.In September, Raila toured Taita Taveta region but the senator was conspicuously missing in the meetings although he was within the County.During the time, Raila visited Mwazo s home ground in Bughuta, Kasighau location, Voi constituency where he raised his concern on Mwazo s absence. When I first visited this area I was accompanied by my friend Mwazo. Today I came alone because I am not in communication with him. Give him my greetings, Raila told Buguta residents.On Saturday, Mwazo showered Kalonzo with praises saying that he was the best person to carry the Cord flag in the coming elections. Kalonzo Musyoka is the right man to send Uhuru home in the coming General elections. Today I openly declare my support for him, Mwazo said amid cheers from Voi residents.Mwazo urged the residents to come out in large numbers and vote for Kalonzo in the coming general elections. More than 354,000 registered voters in Coast region did not vote in the last elections. This time round let us come out in large numbers and vote, he said.Mwazo told Kalonzo to move across the country to popularize himself because this fight is not easy .Kalonzo held political rallies in Voi and Mwatate on Saturday before heading to Taveta on Sunday.He opened party offices in the towns where he ceased the opportunity to introduce wiper candidates in the County for various elective positions in the coming general elections.Kalonzo said that once elected president, he will double the funds allocation for County governments.The Wiper party leader urged Raila Odinga and Moses Wetangula to give him the chance to carry the Cord flag.Kalonzo was accompanied by Mombasa senator Hassan Omar, Taita Taveta governor John Mruttu, National assembly minority whip Thomas Mwadeghu, Voi MP Jones Mlolwa, MPs Patrick Makau, Daniel Maanzo, Khalib Twalib, Francis Nyenze, Jessica Mbalu among other Wiper leaders.Mwadeghu told Kalonzo to crack the whip on those who had defected from the Wiper party. In ODM, we have already finished dealing with the errant members. I want to challenge the Wiper party to do the same, said the Wundanyi MP.Ends