When Geoffrey Atulo looks back on his early years of school growing up in rural Butere, his memories tend to be of the things that weren t there. Too few classroom materials for him and his classmates. Not enough money in his family s pockets to both feed him and buy the books he needed. And teacher strikes nearly every month. Because of these, there were long stretches when Geoffrey could not go to class at all, and had to stay home to do chores instead.Grace Nyanchoka also grew up in Kisii municipality. She remembers being pulled out of six elementary schools by her mother by the time she was in 5th grade, for reasons that still bring her close to tears. Teachers who called her stupid in front of her mother. Beatings with cane rods; being made to sit outside for getting an answer wrong. You re very afraid of teachers, she said. You can t approach them to say you don t understand something because you re afraid you might be punished. SCHOLARSHIP TO AMERICAToday, Geoffrey and Grace are freshmen studying on full four-year scholarships at Saint Andrews School in Boca Raton, Florida one of the top private schools in the state.The two teenagers are keenly aware of the dramatic upward shift their life trajectories have taken in recent years. They also agree on the primary reason for that shift: the years they spent studying at schools in Kenya run by Bridge International Academies. It was one of the first schools where I felt I was free to interact with my teacher and my friends, said Grace, who attended Bridge schools from 5th through 8th grade. You re not afraid to ask what you don t know. There was no discrimination no matter your grade or how you perform, because they want you to go up. Geoffrey, who attended different Bridge schools from 5th through 8th grade, has a similarly positive view of the Bridge method, which he said helped him develop a love for math. If they teach you something, they make you understand. They made it practical not just conceptual, from math to social studies, so it would stick in our minds, he said. It was also competitive. We were all working hard to stand out, and in the process I learned a lot from my peers and teachers. Grace and Geoffrey are remarkable examples of the difference Bridge makes in students lives, but their experiences are not isolated. The KCPE is a test taken by students every November after they complete eight years of courses in primary education. Some 2,900 students who took the KCPE in November last year were from the first Bridge cohort. The students achieved a mean score of 264 - 24 points higher than the national mean score.BRIDGE S AIMSBridge s goal is to provide education opportunities to the families of millions of children in developing countries, where families live on $2 (Sh200) a day or less. By using technology and data, Bridge drives enormous efficiencies, both in terms of the overhead costs required to run a Bridge school, and of increasing the quality of the education students receive. It uses mobile technology for everything, from tracking teacher attendance and assessing student performance to communicating with parents, including a mobile payment option for a tuition.And at the school level, its model lowers costs because most non-instructional management activities are automated and efficient. This allows managers to focus on the critical work needed at the local level: overseeing classroom instruction and building relationships with families and the local community.Growing up, Geoffrey only ever saw people from other cultures in Bollywood movies he would watch when visiting his uncle. But these days, he needs only to step outside his dorm room to mingle with schoolmates from 33 different countries. I m no longer seeing them on TV or in the movies, he says of people he now counts as friends from Asia, Eastern Europe, and South America. There they are. And Grace, whose father works as an army medic, admits that when she was younger, she used to say she wanted to be a doctor because that s what everyone wanted to hear . Today, she has a more specific goal: to become a cardiologist. Because of her experience at Bridge, she says, I am now more confident in what I want for myself and what I want is more achievable. I feel like I have a higher opportunity to achieve. It s a passageway to my success, and without it, I would never have come this far. 