Quins lead the Kenya Cup standings on superior goal aggregate following the weekend s result.Quins are level on 10 points with KCB and Impala but have accumulated more tries than their rivals with a points difference of plus 56. KCB are second on plus 34 and Impala third on plus 30Quins thrashed Strathmore 39-22 at Madaraka to earn bonus point victory. Try scorers for the for the former champions included Pius Shiundu (2) with James Kangethe , Eric Shikuku, Jared Owinyo, Dennis Muhanji and Dennis Omusula scoring a try each. Kevin Keegan added four conversions for the visitors. Elton Isiaho, Ted Dondi, Churchill Ooko and Elkens Musonye scored a try apiece for the students with Kanyiri Kariuki kicking over one conversion. Quins led 17-5 at the interval.KCB edged Mwamba 27-24 in a pulsating match played at the Railway Club while Impala emerged 33-18 winners over Blak Blad at Impala.The bankers try scorers were Davis Chenge, who scored twice with Edwin Salamba and Michael Wanajala posting a try each for the 2015 champions. Marlin Mukolwe added a penalty with Kevin Moseti adding a conversion. Greg Odhiambo had two tries while Collins injera, Humphrey Kayange scored one each for Kulabu. George Mutuku added two conversions for the hosts, who trailed 20-12 at the interval.Resolution Impala Saracens secured a hard fought 33-18 victory over Blak Blad. Last year s runners up were made to fight all the way by a gallant university outfit. Eric Kere crossed the whitewash twice with Anthony Nyadigisi, Nato Simiyu and George Okowa scoring a try apiece. Quinto Ongo kicked over four conversion and George Okowa added one. Bravin Mukoro and Franz Obudo touched down one each for the visitors with Levy Amunga slotting home one conversions and two penalties. Impala led 21-18 at the break.Nakuru lie fourth on nine points after a 41-7 demolition of Mean Machine at the same venue. In other results champions Kabras beat Western Bulls 17-8 in the Kakamega derby as Homeboyz edged Nondies 17-5 at Jamhuri Park.