The government has partnered with Japan to build a Sh3 billion state-of-the-art incinerator in Nairobi to handle hazardous waste containing mercury.In a statement yesterday, Environment PS Richard Sunkuli said an agreement was signed last year, with Kenya providing the land - seven acres - and Japan setting aside funds for construction.Sunkuli s speech was read by the director for multilateral environmental agreements, Richard Mwendandu, during the Kenya-Japan workshop for effective mercury management in relation to the Minamata Convention on mercury.Set to be complete by August next year, the incinerator will have a 20-ton capacity. It will handle waste from Nairobi and surrounding counties.The Minamata Convention on Mercury is a global treaty to protect human health and the environment from the adverse effects of mercury.The convention, to which Kenya is a signatory, was agreed at the fifth session of the Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee on Mercury in Geneva, Switzerland, on January 19, 2013.It was adopted on October 10, 2013 at a diplomatic conference held in Kumamoto, Japan.The convention, which requires 50 countries to ratify to become effective, has major highlights that include a ban on new mercury mines, the phasing out of existing ones, the phasing out and reduction of mercury use in products and processes, control measures on emissions in the air and on release to land and water.Thirty-five countries have ratified it, while 128 have signed. Mwendandu said the incinerator will be on the Eastern Bypass. We still have a risk of mercury poisoning, but it is not unique. It is a global problem, Mwendandu said, adding that the ash will be used in production of cement to avoid landfills.Japan s deputy director of environment Mick Saito urged the government to keep an inventory of mercury held in the country both legally and illegally. Japan can assist to some extent in documenting this, Saito said. He said the level of mercury in products should be labelled.The WHO lists mercury as one of the top 10 most harmful chemicals. Exposure to it, even small amounts, can cause serious health problems. It can destroy the nervous, digestive and immune systems, the lungs, kidneys, skin and eyes. Batteries, switches, cosmetics, soaps, creams and pesticides are some of the products that contain mercury.