The daylight banditry attacks in Kerio Valley coupled with brazen corruption only happen in failed states, Cord leader Raila Odinga has said.In a scathing attack during his Tuesday tour of Uasin Gishu and Elgeyo Marakwet counties, the opposition chief accused the state of failing to end insecurity and looting of public funds. It is surprising that daylight attacks are taking place when we have a functional government... This is a government that should resign, Raila said.The former Prime Minister spoke in Chesongoch, Kerio Valley. He said it was shameful that women have been forced to live in caves since the beginning of the year.Raila hit out at security agencies, accusing them of pursuing petty offenders while bandits have a field day in the Valley. Police have a duty to protect all Kenyans. They should stop harassing innocent locals taking busaa and chang aa while dangerous criminals go scot-free, he said.The ODM leader said Deputy President William Ruto s recent visit to the area was inconsequential as it was followed by a series of bandit attacks. I m told Ruto was around, and cattle rustling took place as soon as he left. What kind of visit was that? Raila asked.The ODM leader urged Marakwets to apply for IDs and register to vote so they can remove Jubilee from government next year. He said the state has marginalised the community.The sacking of David Kimaiyo as Inspector General of Police and later as Kenya Airports Authority board chairman was part of a plot to marginalise the Marakwet community, Raila said.He had earlier visited Moiben, Uasin Gishu county, where he asked individuals mentioned in the National Youth Service scandal and the alleged misappropriation of Sh3.2 billion at the Ministry of Health to step aside to pave for proper investigations. I warned about the looting in NYS, but they said no money was lost. They are now admitting that money was indeed lost, Raila said after he was installed a Kalenjin elder.He was with Butere MP Andrew Toboso, Homa Bay woman representative Gladys Wanga, MPs John Mbadi (Suba), Peter Kaluma (Homa Bay Town), Millie Odhiambo (Mbita) and Simba Arati (Dagoretti North).Kenya Red Cross Society senior official Muhammud Said on Monday said an irrigation project in Tot and Kolowa has stalled after farmers fled.