A 14-year-old girl who died from cancer has become the first British child to be cryogenically frozen after a judge agreed to her dying wish so that one day she could "be cured and woken up".The teenager, who cannot be named, died last month and is now in a 'cryostat' tank at around -196C (-321F) inside the Michigan-based Cryonics Institute, it can be reported for the first time today. She was at the centre of a fierce legal battle between her divorced parents - with her mother agreeing to her wish to be frozen while her estranged father refused because of its 37,000 cost and the brutal process of preserving her.During the landmark case she wrote an extraordinary letter to a judge while on her death bed.She said: "I am only 14-years-old and I don't want to die but I know I am going to die."I want to live and live longer and I think that in the future they may find a cure for my cancer and wake me up. I want to have this chance. This is my wish.""I think being cryo-preserved gives me a chance to be cured and woken up - even in hundreds of years' time. I don't want to be buried underground."She had asked the High Court to rule that her mother should be the only person allowed to make decisions about the disposal of her body. After agreeing, High Court judge Justice Jackson, who visited the girl's bedside shortly before her death on October 17, said the terminally ill she died peacefully knowing that her remains would be frozen.The judge said he had been moved by the 'valiant way' in which she had faced her 'predicament'. Today the girl's solicitor, Zoe Fleetwood, said the teenager described Mr Justice Jackson as her 'hero' after being informed of the court's decision days before her death.Ms Fleetwood told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme: "By October 6, the girl knew that her wishes were going to be followed. That gave her great comfort. Very sadly she died on October 17. She had those last few days knowing that her wish was granted.""It was a great privilege to represent her. She had extraordinary determination. When the decision was communicated to her on October 6, she was very pleased. She was delighted and she wanted to see the judge. The judge did go and see her the very next day. She communicated to me after the meeting and she referred to the judge as Mr 'Hero' Peter Jackson."Her body has been flown to America and she has since slowly been chilled over two to three weeks in Liquid Nitrogen and stored next to around 150 other bodies.She is in one of America's two main cryo-facilities - the Cryonics Institute near Detroit - where its founder Robert Ettinger was frozen with two of his wives when he died aged 92.Around 250 people have spent huge sums cryo-preserving their bodies - the first was Dr James Bedford in 1967 - and it has been a popular theme in movies such as Forever Young starring Mel Gibson. Thousands more have paid up to 150,000 to do the same when they die.A device called a 'heart-lung resuscitator' is used to get the blood pumping through the body again, when required, and medication is applied to the body to prevent the cells from deteriorating. Blood and bodily fluids are drained, then they are replaced with a solution like antifreeze.But the process is hugely controversial, especially with scientists and doctors, because it has never been possible to successfully revive a human or any mammal frozen in this way.The freezing process was carried out 'quite swiftly' after the teenager's death, said Fleetwood.She added: "It was a difficult process. Some might say the girl's mother's attention was directed towards that procedure rather than grieving at that time."But her daughter had passed away. The procedure needed to be carried out. One can't imagine what this parent was going through at this time from the loss of her daughter. But parents' attention can be directed elsewhere with various arrangements after a person's death."Fleetwood said the case came to court for the first time on September 26 and was swiftly dealt with in little over a week in "an extraordinary process very sensitively carried out with respect to the family who are grieving at this time".The case did not create a precedent with regard to the right to be frozen in the hope of future reawakening, said the solicitor."The case was not about the rights and wrongs of cryo-preservation,' she said. "In accordance with the children's case which go before the courts, this case is about the child's welfare and her wishes being followed."Read more on Daily Mail