The accumulating scandals of the National Youth Service have been in our national psyche for quite some time. So has Parliament's investigation, which Kenyans are eager to see come to a conclusion.That is why Josephine Kabura s appearance before the committee yesterday was important. But it ended up being an anti-climax of sorts.Kabura, the star witness owing to her link to the scandals, evaded questions and in some instances prevaricated on straightforward issues already publicly known.It was absurd that despite her conduct, the Public Accounts Committee still agreed to her request for an in-camera session.Closed-door sessions are globally acknowledged as one way of getting to the truth. However, there was something awkward in this case.It goes against the good practice because of the nature of this scandal and the witness s own demeanour.The in-camera session creates a wrong impression that the committee could be cutting deals with this witness. It will raise questions of the integrity of the process and that of the committee members.The committee should have been cautious before deciding to go in camera.It can easily raise concerns over a possible cover-up and erode faith in the committee investigation. It creates a perception games are being played behind the scenes.In any case, the committee has thus far questioned many people over this scam. We are yet to see any tangible development. The public has no indication where the probe is headed, though we await the committee's report.The public has been awaiting the outcome of this saga for too long They want to witness the proceedings in the hope that this will help them get to the bottom of this monstrous corruption scandal.The credibility of the committee and the truth about the scandal hinge on the committee. It would be a travesty of justice should anything untoward, which subverts the truth, impede it. There are high expectations in the public domain over this probe.But Kenyans want witnesses taken through public grilling so they feel part of the process. These are legitimate expectations and Kenyans cannot be faulted. But they will be the loser and they have everything reason to feel cheated by the ongoing shenanigans.The writer is President of the National Civil Society Congress.