Deputy President William Samoei Ruto is by his own admission, no lover of history. This cost him certain political embarrassment this week when he launched at verbal salvo at former all-powerful Devolution and Planning Cabinet Secretary Anne Mumbi Waiguru; seemingly blissfully oblivious to his earlier dismissive and peremptory defense of her. And, of course, this gaffe went viral. Apparently, on June 22, 2015, Ruto had averred: There are those who oppose anything. Leo Yule jamaa anamangamanga huku na kule juu ya NYS. Tunataka kumwambia awache porojo na akiwa na shida na Waiguru, let him come face me and Uhuru. He is jealous of our NYS transformative agenda.Then, he reportedly spectacularly somersaulted on November 5, 2016: We are a transparent government and scandal such as the NYS, where Kenyans have lost their monies can t be tolerated. That is why we have taken people to court and Waiguru should carry her own cross. This is no media creation as vehemently claimed by such regime hawks like Dennis Itumbi and Ngunjiri Wambugu. Neither are the timeless social media postings of the late Jacob Juma that bear an uncanny resemblance to the emerging reality. One key lesson, from the NYS corruption drama and saga is that we have clearly learnt nothing about the moral, intellectual and political bankruptcy to deal with corruption of Uhuruto; now more accurately named Lootuhuruto! Kenya as a collective has not learnt that NYS was a clarion call for the nation to systemically and systematically unlearn bad governance. No amount of attempted finger pointing, buck passing or deflection on this issue will help.The second lesson is that Lootuhuruto will never take responsibility for its own mess. In fact, it will instead perennially seek to silence, through bribery or intimidation, any voices that attempt to highlight this. Little wonder then that social change activist Boniface Mwangi has labeled our entire political class as Ma-vulture and M-pigs among others; and accused of being seized by a diaper mentality. This point was this week poignantly made by Lutuhuruto s strategist-cum- youthwinger Moses Kuria (who once upon a time in recent living memory publicly exhorted his electorate to take up machetes inorder to defend the NYS): There is an old adage that says that before gods destroy you, they make you insane. What else would explain the desperate attempts by Anne Mumbi Waiguru to sink with everything besides her. You told us you were a mere helpless victim. That everyone else was guilty except you. Even if that was true, what would explain the ignominy of your hairdresser carrying Ksh100 million in cash[?] You just have no idea how many of us you hurt.Moses Kuria continues in this same social media posting to ostensibly soul search about the whole episode and, in so doing, offers an excellent glimpse of just how much learning Kenya needs if the aspiration of accountability and democratic governance envisaged by the 2010 constitution is to be achieved. The third lesson is that we are collectively gullible to the congenital and duplicitous mendacity of our rulers who are utterly and disdainful contemptuous of us. As Dr. Wandia Njoya has convincingly argued elsewhere, the problem with Kenya has a name: privilege. It is the root cause; the heart of our national psychosis. This is why Kenya s official 43 tribes can be essentially collapsed into two: the haves on the one hand and the have-nots on the other; the operative paradigm being wenyenchi versus the wananchi or the wallalahai versus the walalahoi. This is not to contend that tribalism does not matter; indeed, it fundamentally does. As Frantz Fanon in The Wretched of the Earth argues: The originality of the colonial context is that economic reality, inequality and the immense difference of ways of life never come to mask the human realities. When you examine at close quarters the colonial context, it is evident that what parcels out the world is to begin with the fact of belonging to or not belonging to a given race, a given species. In the colonies the economic substructure is also a superstructure. The cause is the consequence; you are rich because you are white, you are white because you are rich. That is why Marxist analysis should always be slightly stretched every time we have to do with the colonial problem.The point here is that social and political identity (tribe and tribalism) remains key to understanding our particular pathology but is rooted in a deleterious national psychosis of class differentiation and dominance. To steal from and re-envision Professor Mahmood Mamdani, the colonial order of citizen (ownership, proprietorship, exercising power and agency) on the one hand and subject (rendered powerless and without agency) on the other still rules. Hence the key analytical lens and thrust needs to cease to only be that Uhuru Kenyatta represents Gikuyu hegemony and (historical) victimhood all wrapped into one. Or that Raila Odinga similarly represents the entangled identity of Luo victimhood and (aspirational) hegemony. It needs to shift, additionally, to the understanding that they both (as do all our ethnic hegemons) represent and lead a venal, parasitic, predatory and extractive elite that is not conditioned to commit class suicide; as political strategist and commentator Mutahi Ngunyi (Nikolo Machiavelli s best student outside former president Daniel Moi) had once mistakenly urged Uhuru Kenyatta to do. Hence, the concluding lesson: we must start to think outside the current rubric to find true change. As Albert Einstein once said, No problem can be solved from the same level of consciousness that created it. Let us stop imagining that our rulers will heed our advise to them and reform. Rather, let us instead wisely counsel ourselves to change them in toto. Ngure wa Gachanja is a human rights and democratic governance practitioner. The views expressed in this column are entirely his own and in no way represent or articulate those of any organizations he may be associated with.