I respect Raila Odinga as I do President Uhuru Kenyatta but I must criticize Raila when he exposes and condemns graft selectively creating the impression there is embraceable and forbidden corruption. To fight corruption, Raila and everyone of us, must acknowledge that there is no official corruption that is intolerable and graft by the opposition that is good. Ultimately small graft and grand corruption are equally evil because their DNA is same and small graft will eventually grow to be grand. If no theft is excusable, why is Raila outspoken against corruption in government and silent on corruption by the opposition that is exposed daily in the Cord counties? Raila s silence on corruption by the opposition suggests that he is not opposed to corruption that will benefit him and his war against corruption is only with corruption that does not benefit him. For his fight against one party dictatorship, Raila has been a hero. However, since he acquired power both in government and opposition, Raila has been manipulating corruption and negative ethnicity, not to eliminate either but to exploit both to advance his quest for power. Indeed Raila s silence on corruption by opposition means he has no quarrel with any opposition corruption that will avail to him resources that will help him acquire power. Consequently if Raila were to come to power, he would only eliminate corruption by the opposition to weaken it, and preserve corruption by persons in his government to strengthen his state. Here we need to remember that when Raila was Prime Minister in the Government of National Unity led by him and President Mwai Kibaki, graft was shared between the two factions of government and nobody complained of their own corruption or that of the other side as long as territorial integrity was observed. To the extent that Raila did not complain about corruption of his side in the government of national unity, his credentials in the war against graft are tainted. I don t deny Raila has a right to fight graft. But his fight against graft will be less convincing if it is selective and not inclusive. Moreover, it is not only Raila who is fighting corruption selectively. Most Kenyans only condemn corruption that emanates from other communities, never their own community. The fight against corruption will never succeed as long as it is ethnic and only directed against enemy communities while that from our communities, elites and families is defended, protected and encouraged. In Kenya, graft is used as one of the means of primitive accumulation by our elites. While impoverishing the poor of all communities, it helps to enrich elites of all communities.Raila is convinced that Kikuyu elites used graft to enrich themselves. Equally, he believes elites from marginalized communities can use corruption to raise themselves economically. Collectively, it is believed graft is evil when practised by others but proper to right our economic marginalization or historical injustice. Yet two thefts do not justify corruption and all elite corruption victimizes the poor of all communities. Many times, I have suspected that, due to Raila s selectivity and silence on Cord corruption, if he took power, he would only stop opposition corruption and would protect previously corrupt opposition leaders through denial, silence and non-prosecution. When Professor Kibwana, Kalembe Ndile, Danson Mungatana and myself made our wealth public, I don t remember Raila Odinga ever declaring his. If an audit of life style is good for judges and public servants, it should also be good for all government and opposition leaders. Although we come from different backgrounds, many of us were detained just like Raila. Yet he is rich and we are poor. Why? Raila once told me, quite correctly, that no one can succeed in Kenyan politics without resources. While a lot of resources are one reason Raila has succeeded politically, where and how does Raila get them?It is corruption when Raila exposes and condemns some and not all corruption and not for elimination but manipulation and exploitation.