One of the most celebrated United Nations events is the World Food Day. It was marked on October 16. Even as we celebrated this day to promote awareness and action against hunger, malnutrition and poverty 1.5 million Kenyans are starving.Although the government has initiated strategic interventions such as Njaa Marufuku, National Expanded Irrigation programmes, strategies to revitalise agriculture, Kilimo Biashara and Food biofortification, there have been only slight declines in the Country Hunger Index over the years as documented in the Global Hunger Index and other reports. Malnutrition has slightly declined evidenced from data on nutritional status of women and children from the Kenya Demographic Health survey. A lot has been achieved in the recent past. However, this is not enough to halve the proportion of people who suffer from hunger, a set target in the Millennium Development Goals which transitioned in 2015. It should not be mistaken that meeting this MDG target was farfetched, even in the face of global challenges such as rising unemployment, extreme weather events, changing climates and natural disasters. This year s theme was Climate is Changing. Food and Agriculture must too . Food security is threatened by climate change and the situation is set to worsen with the growing population. This is worrying given our population growth rate is at 2.6 per cent. Crop diversity is crucial in achieving food and nutrition security and building resilience to climate change. Seeds are the genetic base for biodiversity, and the vehicle for delivering a range of advances for the population.According to the Food and Agriculture Organisation, the replacement of traditional crop varieties by modern varieties still remains one of the major factors affecting crop diversity where more than 70 per cent of global crop diversity has disappeared. Farmers are not passing on traditional knowledge and seed diversity and access to the same has eroded over time. Farmers saved seeds encourage diversity, are building blocks for crop improvements known for their high nutritious value, affordability and their resilience to climate change. Cultural practices of indigenous seeds and plant variety such as seed saving, exchanging sharing and selling are important and should be promoted as provided for in Article 11 in the Constitution. It is important to note the level of importance attached to diversity of seed in eliminating hunger The Plant Genetic Resources Research Centre which is provided for in the recently enacted Seed and Plant Varieties Amendment Act 2015 to among other functions protect the ownership of indigenous seeds and plant varieties, their genetic and diverse characteristics, associated indigenous knowledge and its use by the communities of Kenya. It is important for Kenya to embrace innovative technologies in matters of seed such as open source seed system that promotes seed diversity and enhances food security and diverse diets. The writer is programme officer at Hivos East Africa.