Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers (KUPPET) National Vice Chairman Julius Kimurgor Korir s life combines teaching, rights activism, unionism, politics and community work. He says he was born with activism flowing in his blood.When he was a classroom teacher in Nandi County in his younger days, he never shied away from confronting the high and mighty over social ills like land grabbing and corruption.Quite often this landed him in trouble. I was transferred to hardship areas in Turkana as an example to those with the habit of poking their noses where they shouldn t, says Korir.While working a teacher in schools with Nandi and Uasin Gishu he was witness to many incidents of human rights abuses perpetrated by people in high places. I always feel so bad whenever I come across such abuses like land grabbing, he says. I have developed a strong heart not to fear speaking out through public demonstrations to ensure we protect the rights of the poor, Korir says. As a teacher he never feared leading strikes to fight for better remuneration. I am who I am today because of the work of a teacher just like all other professionals. Right from childhood I knew a teacher was very important in society but I was later surprised that they were being treated badly by the government in terms of pay .Korir teamed up with others as founding members of the KUPPET with a vision to specifically fight for the rights of teachers in secondary schools and colleges. There was KNUT but teachers in secondary schools required a special way of dealing with their issues and we have done this through KUPPET. At Kuppet, Korir is in charge of recruitment. He also spearheads a programme in liaison with the Teachers Service Commission that helps in rehabilitation of teachers affected by alcoholism and drug abuse. Alcoholism and drug abuse among teachers is not a disciplinary matter although that is how the TSC has been handling it. He says the problem is actually a medical issue and through Kuppet s initiative hundreds of teachers have benefited from leave out of duty to go for rehabilitation after which they resume work.He wants to join politics so that he can offer people driven leadership for people of Soy and also play active role in national development matters.As a catalyst of change, the unionist says he will not hesitate to seize opportunities to serve the country in any capacity in the country.