Health workers in Garissa have expressed fears that the World Health Organisation s new guidelines on HIV testing and treatment may not achieve its desired results.They said the condition is still highly stigmatised in the county and that giving patients drugs the moment they test positive for the virus, will make most of them shun treatment.Ahmed Hussein, a clinician at the county s referral hospital, said that out of the 2600 that were enrolled on treatment in 2003, a total of 1260 cannot be accounted for.He attributed the lost patients to the test and treat initiative spelt out in the latest WHO guidelines on the management of HIV.Test and Treat requires that patients must be put on medication before they hit below the required 500 mark of their CD4 count. I do not think that it will address the main problem that we have here, which is stigma. We are enrolling a lot of clients but also losing a lot of them, Ahmed said. This is because we are inclined towards the patients needs more than addressing the stigma in the communities they come from, the medic said.Health workers at the facilities Comprehensive Care Centre (CCC) have a system for tracking their clients.Part of the data is on the patient s treatment progress, adherence to treatment, as well as to track those who do not follow up on treatment. We call those who default at least four times and if they don t respond, all we do is just pray for them, Ahmed said. Some of them tell us to stop bothering them because they are not sick, others tell us not to call them, while some even take drastic measures and block our calls, he said.Before the WHO released the new guidelines in September 2015, doctors had to check the CD4 count of the patient before putting them on treatment.In Garissa, only 27 per cent of the people know about their HIV status - most of them women, with the stigma level standing at above 60 per cent. The good news is that a number of people are eager to find out about their HIV status, Ahmed said, adding that at least five to 10 people are tested per day.The hospital receives patients from Mbalambala, Modogashe, Hola, Tana River, Wajir - mostly those who opt to seek treatment in far flung hospitals to avoid being found out. Even some residents of Garissa do not come to the facility. They opt to get their drugs from Nairobi and Tana River because of the stigma they face from the community, he added.The county s Aids and STI coordinator Noor Ahmed Sheikh said they are working on ways to partner with organisations willing to train health workers on the test and treat guidelines.Currently, only Unicef is addressing the needs of HIV patients in the county. If we get support from partners, we should have trained all health workers in the county by January next year, Noor said.Health workers in the county also called on religious leaders and political leaders to create awareness in the community on HIV and the effects of stigma associated with the disease. Our community also needs to accept that HIV is with us. We should stick to the fundamentals of Islam which calls for us to be our brothers/sisters keepers not stigmatising them, Ahmed said.