Kenya chances of qualifying for next year s ICC World Cricket qualifiers received a major blow when they went down to Hong Kong in ICC World Cricket League Championship match at Nairobi Gymkhana yesterday.Chasing a revised target of 173 in another rain-soaked match, Kenya were bowled out for 133 for a 39 runs loss. After losing the toss in a late start match, Hong Kong put on a good batting display to post 148 for 4 in 25.1 overs of the allotted 31 before skies opened. On resumption, the match was reduced to 25 overs and Kenya given a target of 173. Lucas Oluoch gave Kenya a well deserved breakthrough when he uprooted the stumps of Kinchit Shah with only two runs scored. Skipper Barbar Hayat opened his account with two consecutive boundaries off Oluoch in the fourth over to get Hong Kong to double digits. The two shared 19 for the second wicket before Kenya made their first bowling change, bringing on Narendra Kalyan for Nehemiah Odhiambo. Kenya made their second bowling change in the 10th over, bringing on Nelson Mandela for Oluoch and Hayat welcomed him with another six to lift his side to 44 in 10 overs. With the board on 60 after 12 overs, Kenya missed the biggest chance of the inning when Irfan Karim missed a stumping on Hayat off Shem Ngoche. Hayat continued with his confident batting display and alongside Chris Carter, they reached the hundred stand in the 18th over. With wickets not forthcoming with 10 overs to go and the board on 120, Oluoch was brought back into the attack and it paid off when he dismissed Hayat on for 78 from 64 balls. Oluoch picked his third seven balls later when he had Carter easily caught on 41, leaving them on 127 for 3 before Mandela got the fourth.Three balls into the fifth wicket stand, the match was stopped and it went on for almost an a hour and on the restart, Kenya were required to chase 174 in 25 overs.Openers Karim and Alex Obanda reached 50 inside seven overs to give Kenya a decent start. Nadeem Ahmed got the breakthrough when he had Obanda stumped on 39 with 96 runs required from 12 overs. Kenya lost its second wicket four balls into Karim-Dhiren Gondaria s stand when Rath bowled Karim on 33. Skipper Rakep Patel was bowled by Ahmed for a duck with the board on 86. Scores were 90 for 5 when Ahmed dismissed Gondaria and Kalyan in quick succession before Collins Obuya and Gurdeep Singh put on a cameo stand of 25. Needing 50 to win from five overs brothers Nehemiah and James Ngoche were out in two balls to Tanveer Ahmed.