Large companies see cyber security threats and next year's general election as primary risks to stability of their businesses, analysts at risk management firm ControlRisks suggested yesterday. The risk consultancy, however, said most of the companies are aware of the risks and are already factoring them into their strategic plans. The increasing risk of cyber attacks has topped agenda for the corporates, especially in financial services sector, with Central Bank issuing an IT security alert in May that banks and key government agencies were a target for hackers. We advise all staff to be cautious when opening e-mails and accessing the Internet. Do not open e-mails from unknown sources, CBK governor said in a memo on May 3. The CBK's alert followed a global cautionary note by Swift , which handles international interbank messages including those by Kenyan lenders, on April 25 over several attacks on its system, hitherto considered super-secure. This came in the wake of a $81 million (about Sh8.25 billion) theft from Bangladesh Central Bank account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in February. ControlRisks' Resilience Survey 2016-17, launched in Nairobi yesterday, showed that 47 per cent of top firms in Africa see cyber-crimes as a key concern. This rises to about 60-62 per cent in Kenya due to her superior technological advancement and internet access, ControlRisks' head of compliance, forensics and intelligence for East Africa Patrick Matu said. In Kenya and East Africa, we have a fairly young, well-educated population which is very tech-savvy. We have also things like unemployment which make people try to use their tech skills for nefarious purposes, Matu said. The way to address it (cyber security threat) should not just be technologically-driven but more from a risk management and threat-led approach. Companies are also developing strategies for managing possible business disruptions ahead of August 2017 general election. This is important to help them remain resilience post-election, head of risk and compliance at ICEA-LION Group Dorothy Maseke said. Risk management was initially for protecting losses but it is now a way of building and growing business resilience, she said. It is time firms started factoring election years into their usually five-year strategic plans. Matu said the deadly 2007-8 post-election skirmishes were an eye-opener for most businesses. A lot of organisations are actually planning from next year's strategy with elections in mind, he said. It is not just about security, its about supply chain, business continuity, recovery plans and the transition in county and national government and how that will impact the business based on how your business is structured and how it operates. 