Kenya's economy is likely to expand by just more than six per cent next year, down from an initial forecast of 6.5 per cent a senior Treasury official has said. Geoffrey Mwau attributed this to slowing private-sector credit growth. Private-sector credit grew just 7.1 per cent in July from 17.8 per cent in December of last year, the Central Bank said in September. That is well below what the CBK says is ideal credit growth of 12 to 15 per cent. The contraction in July was before a cap on commercial lending rates imposed by the government in September, a move that is expected to further shrink credit levels. "We have moderated our growth (forecast) in 2017 to slightly over six per cent. Before we were very optimistic it would get to 6.5 per cent," Mwau, the director general of fiscal and economic affairs, told Reuters. "We don't see credit growth affecting growth especially for 2016."Most of the economic growth momentum was driven by public- sector investment, he said.The East African nation is building a new multi-billion- dollar railway line from the coast, expanding its road network and constructing new power plants and dams."Public investment is not really related to credit," Mwau said, adding growth was also supported by farming, a recovery in tourism and investments in oil and gas after Kenya discovered oil in 2012. Commercial oil production has yet to start. The downgrade comes after economists with global firms also cut next year's growth projection to 5.7 per cent. A panel of economists at Barcelona-based FocusEconomics to 5.7 per cent, from a projection of more than six per cent at the beginning of the year. The firm bases its projectyion on analysis of data from 11 leading financial firms, consultancies and think-tanks. We remain cautious about agriculture output over the coming months owing to weather reports of uneven rainfall in the key food growing counties, they said in a report on November 15. Moreover, the slowdown in private sector credit growth also poses as a downside risk to the promise of the private sector. 