Cord has opened a new war front against IEBC and accuses the electoral agency of violating the spirit of the newly enacted electoral laws.In a letter to IEBC Chief Executive Officer Ezra Chiloba, the Opposition lists four grounds to prove the Commission is allegedly acting with impunity.Cord CEO Norman Magaya accused the Commission of advocating for the amendments of the law based on what he termed as pretentious propositions such as cost implications . In a nutshell and vide this letter, we officially wish to register our displeasure with the manner in which the Commission is executing its functions and warn the Coalition will not hesitate to deploy both political and extra-political as well as legal and extra-legal measures to stamp out this impunity, Magaya warned.On October 26, IEBC Communications manager Andrew Limo told the Star the commission is satisfied with the news laws.Limo also dismissed Cord accusations that IEBC had secretly sponsored suits in the High Court to nullify several key sections of the electoral laws. We have no problem with the new laws. When it raises the budget, it's the national Treasury's responsibility to bridge the gap. When it gives no room for political party nominations disputes, it's the parties themselves that must mitigate the challenge, Limo said.But in their letter dated 3rd October, 2016, the Raila Odinga led Coalition claim IEBC is seeking to water down the level of the audit of the voter register.During the painstaking negotiations on electoral reforms, the team agreed to hire a reputable professional firm to conduct a forensic audit of the register.But the eligibility set out for the tender, Magaya claim, is minute to seal the rot in the IEBC voter register.Cord also rubbished the draft ICT regulations developed by IEBC, saying they fall way below the standard envisaged in law. One can only only conclude that the Commission is hellbent on mutilating the new laws. In its current form, the draft regulations substantively water down the provisions set out in law both in letter and in spirit, Magaya said.Cord also took issues with IEBC's procurement of key electoral materials before new Commissioners are installed, terming it illegal.The Commission has began multi-billion shilling procurement of election materials including ballot papers. As it is now, IEBC has no Commissioners after the resignation of the nine Commissioners and therefore the procurement being undertaken lacks policy guidance and the same and therefore laden with illegalities, Magaya stated.Limo said, however, the tender process confirms with commission-approved work plans. It's a lengthy process and we would like to avoid last-minute procurement which was our undoing last time. It's the duty of the secretariat, he said.Magaya however reminded the Chiloba led secretariat that his team must be vetted by the incoming Commissioners, alleging integrity questions.He said if the Election Laws (Amendment) Act 2016 was to be amended, it can only be done through a similar negotiated process that gave birth to the current law. Any conspiracy to amend it through the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee will be resisted ferociously, he said.