David Mwole Kimaiyo was appointed Kenya s first Inspector General of Police in 2012 after the rank was discontinued in 1965 and reinstated by the 2010 Constitution.He describes himself as a man who does not give up on anything he pursues, regardless of any obstacles that may stand in his way.His father died when he was just six. He was brought up through a humble and difficult life in the banditry prone Kerio Valley.He became battle hardened early. He overcame the challenges, joined the Kenya Police Force as a constable in 1979 and rose through the ranks to become Inspector General of Police after 35 years of service. I vowed that I would live like a disadvantaged person. I aim for the best in everything I do. I put God first and He has never forsaken me , he says of his struggles to the top.Kimaiyo is a born-again Christian who is also a pastor having studied Theology. When he served as IG, he always carried the Bible wherever he went, the same way he does today.He is now switching gears to politics. He has declared his interest in the Elgeyo Marakwet county Senate seat in 2017. Consistent with his ambition, he is not ruling out the possibility of running for President in future.The former IGP belongs to the class of Kenya who never tarmacked . The government advertised for the police recruitment exercise before he completed his Form Four. He walked to the recruitment centre and was picked at the first instance. I had a wound on one of my legs which would have automatically disqualified me. But I covered it with mud and I was lucky the recruitment officers did not notice. He would later sit his O-level exams privately. He went on to study various courses, earning himself promotions on merit to the highest ranks. I knew education was the key to everything else in life. I know it can even be applied to transform communities in Kerio Valley and end the banditry problem we face. He earned a chain of awards for distinguished service and would leave the Service with his head held high. Although he admits that he quit at a time when there were security challenges, he was not afraid of taking personal and collective responsibility for failures of commission and omission.Kimaiyo is now writing his autobiography, titled In the Spirit of Service . He says: It will detail my story as the boy who rose from the escarpments of Kerio Valley to Kenya s first IG under the new Constitution .