Coast regional coordinator Nelson Marwa yesterday stopped a Sh6 million school-feeding programme for KCPE exam candidates in Mombasa to deter cheating.The county government had planned to provide lunch to 8,500 candidates. The directive also applies to the Sharrif Nassir Foundation, which has provided lunch to exam candidates for eight years. It had set aside Sh3.2 million to feed 3,700 KCPE candidates in 70 private and public schools in Mvita.&ldquo;This is to inform you that no food from any well-wishers is required in schools. Schools are expected to organise their own food. Please inform our colleagues. The above are instructions from the county commissioner. Noncompliance may lead to dire consequences, including arrest,&rdquo; read a statement from education subcounty administrators to a teachers&rsquo; WhatsApp forum.Education executive Tendai Lewa dismissed claims that the decision was meant to curb cheating. &ldquo;How does feeding children promote cheating in exams? If anything, the level of concentration increases,&rdquo; he said.The Education ministry has put in place measures to restore the credibility of national exams, following rampant cheating orchestrated by teachers, police and education officials.Lewa accused Marwa of sabotaging the programme, which could have helped needy pupils. Addressing the media at St Augustine&rsquo;s Primary School in Tudor, he said they will hold the national government accountable for the pupils&rsquo; performance. Lewa said many candidates are disappointed by Marwa&rsquo;s directive, which he termed dictatorial, insensitive, inhumane and likely to undermine the outcome of the exams. He said the Kenya National Examination Council allowed the county to distribute food to schools. &ldquo;We know this will adversely affect the candidates&rsquo; concentration and ability to perform,&rdquo; Lewa said. He said the county director of education declined to pick their calls. Sharrif Nassir Foundation project coordinator Ali Naaman said following the directive, they have decided to distribute the free parked lunch to orphanages, street families and needy residents.