Costa? Now that is a name I&rsquo;m loving to hateLiverpool Vs Sunderland Saturday 6pmMy Prediction: The Reds 1-1 The Black CatsSo Liverpool were toppled off the top of the Premier League last weekend after their surprising draw against Southampton. But like many other league sides, they were suffering the effects of the international break that took its toll on players. They relied heavily on their South American players who had long flights to and from the international break. But why am I making excuses for Jurgen Klopp&rsquo;s men? While Southampton had zero shots on target last weekend, Liverpool had just two. A poor performance from both clubs. Meanwhile Sunderland appear to be on the road to recovery. After a ridiculously dismal start to the season they have won their last two matches against Bournemouth and Hull City. Infact they put three past Hull with no reply last weekend and they are looking as confident as ever! Playing at Anfield won&rsquo;t be easy but I think the Black Cats can disrupt the status quo.Chelsea Vs Tottenham Saturday 830pmMy Prediction: The Blues 2-2 SpursTop of the table vs Unbeaten; this will be interesting! And to top it off; it&rsquo;s a London derby! Chelsea are on fire! They&rsquo;ve gone six games unbeaten which saw them jump to the top of the table last weekend. Diego Costa seems to have grown up overnight and instead of causing unsportsmanlike trouble he&rsquo;s focusing on scoring goals. I don&rsquo;t like it but I admire it! Does that even make sense? Spurs meanwhile were so lucky against West Ham last weekend. They should have suffered their first defeat of the season but talk about two last minute goals from Harry Kane; what a sucker punch for the Hammers! This is going to be one interesting tie because what last weekend&rsquo;s London derby showed was that with ultimate concentration Spurs can be beaten. Even though I would like Chelsea stopped, since Spurs are our biggest rivals as Gunners. I would like to see them being beaten. Okay that is what is on my wishlist but realistically I think this game will end up all square.Arsenal Vs Bournemouth Sunday 5:15pmMy Prediction: The Gunners 2-0 BournemouthA nice and easy relaxed game is in store for Arsenal this weekend after that horror show at Old Trafford. Arsenal were at their worst last weekend against Manchester United and it&rsquo;s a miracle we came out of there with a point. But that&rsquo;s why I love this beautiful game. It doesn&rsquo;t play to the rules of logic! Bournemouth may have beaten Stoke City 1-0 last weekend but the Arsenal squad will be coming into this game eager to show why we are a top team in the league, eager to wipe out the memory of the Old Trafford horror show. Manager Arsene Wenger has quality players, they just need to turn up for the game. Midweek against PSG wasn&rsquo;t one of our best showings so we need to get back on track in the league at least. On paper we have already won this game. Despite being cocky in this analysis we need to be cautions on the pitch and the three points will follow. Manchester United Vs West Ham Sunday 730pmMy Prediction: The Red Devils 1-1 The HammersOh Man United. I almost feel sorry for the Red Devils for putting so much effort into the game against Arsenal last weekend and coming away with an equal number of points as the Gunners. Actually it&rsquo;s laughable! I really don&rsquo;t care about the miseries of Jose Mourinho&rsquo;s team. I hope their game against West Ham ends the same way as the Arsenal one did. United are looking good and playing well. Their Thursday night tie against Feyenoord cemented their power but if you don&rsquo;t score more goals than your opponent, you don&rsquo;t gain maximum points. Mourinho has often complained about playing on Thursdays saying they are still fatigued by the weekend but hey that&rsquo;s football. Do you see our Thursday Night football clubs complaining? No! The Hammers were superb against Spurs last weekend but lost concentration before the final whistle, giving away the three points. They just need to play until the final whistle at Old Trafford and they will come out with a point.