Kenya has just witnessed the launch of the first free-to-air 24-hour sport television channel that costs consumers absolutely nothing.Bamba Sport was officially launched yesterday in Nairobi changing the national landscape of what is a globally growing sporting platform, the preserve of pay-per-view content too expensive to afford. Now it comes to you free. Radio Africa Group Limited's chairman Kiprono Kittony, who heads the board, welcomed the entry of Bamba sports onto the market. Sports is big business. We have talented young people in sports who need to showcase their talents on a big platform to an even bigger audience," Kittony said."We are in the digital age. We must be at the forefront of technology and innovation, he added.Head of Bamba Sport Carol Radull said the interactive sport and Talk Tv station is already in the process of doing more. In the coming weeks the station will announce a broadcast sponsorship of one of the leagues in local sport and we are inviting all federations who feel we can work together to come to the table and talk with us. We have 24 hours a day to dedicate to sport and while we do show international sport there are plenty more hours in the day to dedicate to ourselves, she added. Fans can call in during the news, engage us on social media and have a conversation with other passionate fans," Radull said.Ministry of Sports Under secretary Sina Ondimu welcomed the entry of Bamba Sport into the market. We hope we will get to see our own sportsmen and women being given priority in sports.""Kenya Director General Sports Kenya Gordon Oluoch said: "I'm delighted with the entry of Bamba Sport which will give priority to local content.Football Kenya President Nick Mwendwa also hailed the entry of Bamba Sports. As football we are happy. Football is the biggest sport in the world and we need to tell the stories of our young and upcoming footballers, Mwendwa said.Among those present were Mathare Youth Sports Association (MYSA) chairman Bob Munro, Kenya 15s team manager Wangila Simiyu among others.