President Uhuru Kenyatta has jokingly asked&nbsp;ICC&nbsp; prosecutor Fatou Bensouda to look into protests that have followed Donald Trump's election as US President. Demonstrators have been marching in cities across the United States to protest against Republican Trump 's surprise election win. They have blasted his controversial campaign rhetoric about immigrants, Muslims and other groups. They ave also said his election&nbsp; poses a threat to their civil and human rights, a day after a protester was shot in Portland, Oregon. [VIDEO] Thousands take to US city streets to protest Trump victoryUhuru said: "I was quite tempted to look for Bensouda to take the case against post-election violence in the United States." He spoke during a visit to Uganda where he also noted that US citizens chose who they wanted as their leader. The President was in the country for the 2nd Annual Diplomatic Forum organised by the Diplomatic Corps. Trump defeated Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton, in what many across the world fear could be the end of the USA as they knew it.But Uhuru reiterated his congratulatory message to Trump, saying: " We have accepted their sovereign&nbsp;rights." Several African countries and Russia have in the past weeks declared they were quitting the International Criminal Court, their main complaint being bias.All eyes are now on President Uhuru Kenyatta, the ICC's chief tormentor who made history in 2013 by becoming the first sitting head of state to appear before the court, on charges of crimes against humanity.The case relating to Uhuru's alleged role in post-election violence in 2008 in which at least 1,200 people died collapsed in 2014 for lack of evidence.Read: ICC's toughest trial: Africa versus 'Infamous Caucasian Court'Also read:&nbsp; Uhuru presidential win killed ICC case - BensoudaIn reaction to Uhuru's comment on the US election, Twitter user 'Saba Saba' said: "It's not a joke but the truth." But&nbsp;Patricia Sophia said Kenya should call on Bensouda regarding cases of ethnic cleansing "that opened the doorway to The Hague". Frederick Wa-Murunga wrote: "T hat is when you know this boy is not very bright. His gaffes are just major." Bensouda said in June 2015 that Uhuru's rise to the presidency was the&nbsp; key factor&nbsp;that led to the collapse of her case against him. She said witnesses refused to testify while the government&nbsp;stopped cooperating&nbsp;with the ICC.She also suffered a&nbsp;major blow&nbsp;in her case against Ruto and journalist Joshua Sang after the Appeals Court reversed a ruling permitting the use of recanted evidence.Read:&nbsp; President Uhuru speaks of his lowest ICC moment: When the news brokeAlso read:&nbsp; Uhuru file still open, says Bensouda