Poverty and wealth share one trait: thinking. Each path is governed by thought patterns that create systems which in turn guarantee specific results.For instance, the thought or belief that you re inadequate or never good enough could make you constantly settle for less than you deserve. As a result, average becomes your default position. This root thought keeps your aspirations low and you naturally seek out mundane opportunities. It s clockwork; it never fails!This is why poverty focuses on money while wealth is system-focused. The wealthy understand that a system (or thought pattern) is more powerful than a sale. Have you ever wondered why wealthy organisations have a well-thought out sales process? One good reason: the process is the wealth, not the cash exchange. The process guarantees the exchange.It s not an exhaustive list, but these are a few values of a wealthy system: Time: Any encounter with true wealth would reveal its respect for time. A system is designed such that one thing automatically leads to another in a time frame. It s called the domino effect. The best systems are structured to properly manage time. Remember, time is money. Growth: True wealth is firmly rooted in growth personal and professional. Wealthy systems invest in the growth of its people. The prosperity of the enterprise depends on it. On the other hand, poverty and growth opportunities don t mix. Relationships: An up-close encounter with some globally influential, wealthy people and you would be shocked at how gracious and respectful they are. Wealth is skilled at honour. This is not about crafted PR stunts in the bid to maintain a solid public image or avoid lawsuits. Without implying perfection, true wealth is respectful deeply respectful of human interaction. Excellent delivery: A wealthy system thinks of how to deliver the best in the best possible way because people deserve the best. Beyond rhetoric, this thinking focuses on building the capacity for great delivery consistently. Attention to HOW a promise is delivered is one major difference between poverty and wealth. Are you wealthy? I m not talking about money in the bank. Anyone can make cash but, how do you think? I ve met rich people who are not wealthy. I think the truly wealthy are few.Wealth is an inward reality the thinking, system and essence. A wealthy individual can be stripped of all riches and be fine, because they can get it back. Wealth is essence, not cash. @SamuelMpamugo