Nairobi is for the next two weeks hosting the World Press Photo Exhibition at The Kenya Archives, Nairobi County. The two-week exhibition will give an opportunity for Kenyans to view an entire collection of award winning images from the World Press Photo contest that were selected from 82,951 photos made by 5775 photographers from 128 different countries globally. Organized by PAWA254, an organization that uses arts and media to foster citizen s engagement with support from the Netherlands Embassy in Kenya, the World Press Photo Exhibition is a major force in developing and promoting the work of the photojournalists with a range of activities and initiatives that span the globe and is open to the public for 24 hours a day, 7 days a week for public viewing. World Press Photo Exhibition helps photojournalists present their stories to a global audience that seek fresh insights and new perspectives and celebrate the highest standards of photojournalism. This is the 2nd year of partnership that seeks to bring to Kenya the best of the world photography. As we celebrate some of the world s best images, let us remember that press photography is not about having the best camera nor is it about always being there, it is particularly when you spot that one moment that tells a thousand words. I look forward to East African and more so Kenyan photographers making it among the winners of the contest, noted Netherlands Ambassador to Kenya, Frans Makken. On her part, Njeri Mwangi, Special Projects Officer, PAWA254, noted: The fact that Nairobi this year is hosting one of the leading photography platforms in the world is an eye-opener to all our photographers. As we enjoy viewing some of the best captured moments in the world, let us also challenge ourselves more so that our photos also make it to the global stage. World Press Photo Exhibition closes on December 12th, 2016. The exhibition of award-winning photos is shown worldwide in 100 cities and 45 countries, reaching a global audience of 4 million people each year. Other countries that currently hosting the World Press Photo Exhibition include: Los Angeles (USA), Barcelona (Spain), Prangins (Switzerland), Maia(Portugal) and Groningen (Netherlands).