Former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth has made a flying start in the race to become the next Nairobi governor - if he decides to stand in next August s election.Kenneth ran for President in 2013 and there has been widespread speculation that he will relaunch his political career in 2017 by standing for governor in Nairobi or Murang a. However, his candidacy for governor is unpopular with supporters of Deputy President William Ruto, who believe Kenneth may be plotting to stand for President in 2022.An opinion poll conducted by Radio Africa between November 1 and 6 places Kenneth at a solid 19 per cent as the favourite candidate for Nairobi governor, even before he has declared his intention to stand. Top of the poll is incumbent Governor Evans Kidero with 27 per cent popularity followed by Senator Mike Sonko with 23 per cent.Nominated MP Johnson Sakaja trails in fourth place with five per cent, followed by Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru with three per cent. However 15 per cent are still undecided.Water CS Eugene Wamalwa and former Starehe MP Margret Wanjiru have two per cent each, while Esther Passaris is last with one per cent. The race for Nairobi governor has tightened with the entry of Kenneth, a presidential candidate in the last elections who has also declared support for President Uhuru Kenyatta in the 2017 elections, Radio Africa Head of Research Patrick Ogangah said.The margin of error on the poll is +/-2.83 per cent with a 95 per cent confidence interval. A total of 1,000 respondents in Nairobi were interviewed through telephone calls. Kenneth is yet to declare formally if he will contest Nairobi after also showing interest in the Nakuru and Murang a governor seats. The decision of who will be the next governor of Nairobi may fall on the undecided voters currently standing at 15 per cent, the Radio Africa poll states. Nairobi MCAs, led by Deputy Minority Leader Chege Ngaruiya, have backed Kenneth for the governorship and asked him to dissolve his Kenya National Congress party and join the recently launched Jubilee Party.For Jubilee supporters in the poll, Sonko is top with 31 per cent followed by Kenneth at 24 per cent, then Kidero on 11 per cent, followed by Sakaja and Waweru on 6 per cent. Wamalwa only has a miserable two per cent support among Jubilee supporters in Nairobi.Looking at Cord supporters only, Kidero enjoys massive support with 52 per cent, followed by Sonko at 15 per cent, Kenneth 12 at per cent, Sakaja at three per cent and Wamalwa has two per cent. Of Cord supporters, 10 per cent are still undecided. Kidero performs strongly with men where he has 32 per cent support followed by Sonko with 22 per cent, Kenneth has 18 percent, Sakaja six per cent, Wamalwa and Waweru three per cent, and Wanjiru and Passaris one per cent. However, Sonko comes out on top with 24 per cent of Nairobi declaring that he is their favourite candidate for governor compared to Kidero with 21 per cent, Kenneth 20 per cent, Sakaja four, Wanjiru three, Waweru and Wamalwa two, and Passaris has one per cent. However a substantial 22 per cent of women are undecided on their best candidate.Among youth between 18-24 years, Sonko has 25 percent support, closely followed by Kidero on 24 percent, Kenneth 19 percent, Sakaja seven and Waweru four per cent. Among Nairobians between 25-34 years, Kidero leads with 25 percent, then Sonko 21 percent, Kenneth at 20 percent and the undecided at 19 per cent. Kidero is also preferred among 35-49 year-olds with 31 per cent support, followed by Sonko at 22 percent, Kenneth 18 while Sakaja and Waweru have five per cent each.