By the 2014 World Cup, Brazilians were accustomed to winning.The football supernation did not believe it could be humiliated in its best sport. But when the dazzling Germans humiliated the Samba Boys 7-1 in one of its own great cities,Belo Horizonte, the country moaned. Tears flowed. Germany scored five goals in 29 minutes. It was not easy for the football-loving Brazilians to accept the utter defeat. They have probably not recovered from the thrashing. But the Samba Boys are probably rebuilding for the 2018 World Cup.The biblical end times may not be near, but something dramatic turned routine logic topsy-turvy. A man who could not be trusted with a television remote control button is the 45th President of the US. This very American show is not funny anymore.A man critics believed was much of a rustic rabble-rouser, one who could not be trusted with a lift button is going to be the Commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces. This is not a stage-play any more.American Liberals and Democrats have not said it, but they may be praying the maverick clown is not going to tune to The Apprentice show when the ISIS terrorists get wild in Washington. Trump pessimists have not said it, but perhaps they are praying President Donald Trump will not drive the White House presidential lift to the basement when precision is required in the Washington Situation Room. Or groping women when the Pentagon is aflame.Sometimes the unexpected happens. An NBC TV analyst captured the contradictions of the American drama: Very few people thought he would actually run, then he did. They thought he wouldn t climb in the polls, then he did. They said he wouldn t win any primaries, then he did. They said he wouldn t win in the Republican nominations, then he did. Finally, they said there was no way he could compete for, let alone win, a general election, now he is President-elect Trump. The man mainstream American media and pollsters had consistently, and with predictable reason, dismissed as a no-show is the new sheriff. Trump tells his supporters and the world he is going to Make America Great Again . He is reclaiming America for Americans.Some Kenyans who love the US in a vain way sulked and moaned when their possibility of securing future Green Cards melted before their eyes. The future Americans were witnessing the arrival of the man who has promised to Make America Great Again . The man has also promised his government may want to repatriate all African immigrants back to Africa.Africans belong in Africa. They can also make African countries great if they tried hard enough. The patron of the xenophobic may not have expressed himself in such bleak terms, but his presidential campaign motif, his overtly expressed anti-immigrant ideology, is foreboding.The message to African economic exiles in the US is that the game is up. The mythical land of the famous and the free may no longer be a haven of opportunities for immigrants. Let s hope well for illegal immigrantsKenyans who look to America as the patron of the world have no reason to sulk. Americans deployed the power of the ballot to do what is good for their country. Kenyans, too, have a perfect opportunity to do what is right for Kenya. There is even better news the darkest hour of the night is before dawn. Kenyans have nine months before the general election to make Kenya shine again.Herein lies the message: Americans have done what they believe is good for America. Kenyans, too, can reclaim the pre-Independence nationalist fervour. And, for Nairobi, by the ballot, we can make Nairobi shine again.