Kwale Deputy Governor Fatuma Achani has said she is ready to take over from Governor Salim Mvurya who was expelled by ODM on Tuesday.Achani and Mvurya pledged support for Jubilee early in September but she said on Wednesday that she was still a member of the Orange Party.The Deputy Governor said there should be no worries if Mvurya is removed from office. Those who think there will be a by-election... tell them to go back and read what the law says. If the Governor has gone I will definitely take over as the Deputy, she said.She spoke during the flagging off of medical equipment worth Sh13 million, donated by Kenya Red Cross Society to 86 health facilities.Read: Ababu, Mvurya among 10 rebels expelled from ODMAchani dismissed the ODM disciplinary committee as null and void, saying member Mishi Mboko (Mombasa woman representative) insulted Mvurya during a rally in Kwale town.She said she will continue supporting the Governor even though they belong to different parties My dear Governor, unless the laws of Kenya have changed, you are a Kenyan and you have rights just like others, she said. She urged locals to shun party politics and ensure they elect leaders who will serve them after 2017 general election.Governor Salim Mvurya refused to comment on the decision by ODM to expel him alongside nine other members who defected to Jubilee. I can only speak about what has brought us here today. I am sorry I cannot comment on anything else, he said while rushing to his vehicle.Also read:Jubilee wins big in Coast as Mvurya ditches ODMKwale residents do not want by-electionsODM national chairman John Mbadi earlier asked the 10 expelled politicians to brace for tough by-elections in their turfs but Kwale residents rejected this.They dared ODM to call for the mini polls saying it will be in for a rude shock since Mvurya will be re-elected.The more than 300 residents drawn from at least 20 wards addressed journalists at Culture Centre in Kwale town today.The members of the Mkoko political group said the party's attempt to remove their Governor from office was the last kick of a dying horse. They said ODM was losing political support."We will all be behind Mvurya until he is re-elected in 2017," said their leader Sheikh Kassim Zani."Those against his leadership have failed. Regardless of the party Mvurya will join, Kwale people will elect him because of his track record."Zani said ODM leader Raila Odinga should forget about Kwale residents' support next year and warned that politicians who insult Mvurya will not be allowed to campaign in the area.Read: Brace for tough by-elections, ODM tells expelled politiciansGroup member Binti Raso said they were not shaken by ODM's threats and were ready for the by-election. Votes belongs to us, not ODM. We will go where our Governor will go. We all know he is in Jubilee and so are we. ODM should know it no longer has Kwale's support,"said Raso.She added that Mvurya has united all tribes.Thomas Mwangeka from Lunga Lunga blamed Mombasa politicians for Mvurya's expulsion, but said they failed as Mvurya has the people's support. If Governor Hassan Joho wants a seat in Kwale he should come and see us embarrass him instead of meddling in Kwale affairs," said Mwangeka.He told Joho the county will not listen to him because "he has no use and benefit to us like Mvurya".Mdune Julo said Kwale people were ready to prove ODM wrong by re-electing Mvurya on another party's ticket.He warned that they will push for the end of water supply to Mombasa if Mvurya remains a target. If Joho can drink sea water let him do so... that is if he does not stop interfering with Kwale issues. Raila should also forget about Kwale votes because he listens to Joho, he said.Youth leader Akili Lung anzi said ODM was no longer needed in the region.