Kenya Power recorded a Sh12 billion profit before tax for the year ended June 30, attributed to a sustained favourable business environment and sales that grew by 3.6 per cent .This is as I pay through the nose and staying in darkness for most of the time in my house in the city and rural home respectively. I return to the KPLC subject mainly because CEO Ben Chumo s honesty is astonishing. He explained my predicament was due to an increase in energy charges resulting from growth in unit purchases". He was referring to extraneous tax on my token bills and outrageous billing of outages in my rural home. The annoying response is when the KPLC demands you pay unscrupulous bills before lodging a complaint of inflated charges, which they never correct. Not long ago in the undulating hills of Vihiga county, homesteads would hurriedly evacuate movables, including children and livestock, into shelters at the earliest sign of the rain. The fear, then, was deadly lightening under whose death meant a burial befitting a dog for fear of abomination on the living. Superstitions on how the unknown phenomena-like lightening would select a target to kill was attributed to evil spirits stalking a home. There areno more lightening fears, at least since Jalango Okello started earthling lightening in the 1990s. Today s mortal fear is the darkness that envelops the village courtesy of the KPLC dithering on unexplained blackouts should it rain. The local nickname for the Kenya Power employees is wale wa stima inaogopa mvua (those whose electricity fears the rain). And true to this nickname, the KPLC electricity goes off at the slightest droplets of the rains. It then means for many days, there is no electricity hence the daylight evacuation at homesteads to avoid impeding darkness. Dinner time has moved to just before the sun goes down at 7pm from the usual 9pm. That means a vibrant community is turned into ghostland, where you can hear a pin drop in the quiet night. Ironically, this deceptive tranquility isn t a deterrent to thieves who under the cover of the KPLC-instigated darkness, have a field day. There are of course those fake numbers the utility firm churns out in adverts as emergency contact numbers. If the numbers are ever answered, it is to promise to look into the problem . That could mean a week or never. If there were the best case of the worst example in customer care, then KPLC is it. That isn t to say they can t change, unless they remain a politically protected monopoly. Talking of which, what is happening to the Last Mile project? For some reason, it became associated with Deputy President William Ruto for his penchant for selfies under unusually demeaning rural rafters. Since the DP exited the selfie promo, you now hear none of it. A little bird whispers that all is not well with project Last Mile and that it could be the next frontier where tenderpreneurs have eloped to. I am not insinuating ill-motive but where there is smoke, the probability of fire is real. It's alleged installation contracts have been liberally given to unqualified brokers with eminent danger of widespread electrocution incidences. Sub-standard logs and poor workmanship on mud huts is mostly a PR exercise to excite the politically ignorant but which could mutate into a major scandal. Ill-wind doesn t spare the innocent but one can avoid inhaling by covering the nostril. In a scandal prone environment, KPLC could be staring at a long period of negative perception by its clients which it can ignore. But KPLC wouldn t ignore the swell of scandal when anti-corruption whistleblowers come calling. In one village the lights went off as soon as the DP exited.It would do KPLC a lot of good PR to first clean house on customer service before losing foot in exalted projects that only serve political ends and not commercial probity.