Seamers Elijah Otieno and Emmanuel Bundi have been dropped from the national cricket team for the upcoming crucial ICC World Cricket League Championship (WLCL) ties against Hong Kong.The selection committee named a 14-member squad for the two matches last week.There were no real surprises in the squad as the selectors decided to drop only Otieno and Bundi from the squad that played in last month s quadrangular, which attracted Kenya, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Uganda.Otieno had a poor season in the Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association Super League. From 15 matches he played for Swamibapa, Otieno who has been a member of the national team for nine years, failed to bag more than six wickets. He was also not among the top 50 bowlers in the league. There was also no place for former national team player Maurice Ouma, who was the league second best batsman with 736 runs from 14 innings and league s top wicket keeperIn September, Star Sports had revealed that Maurice Ouma was pondering on his future after he unsuccessfully failed to secure a contract with CK despite his league performance. Irfan Karim will once again be relied on to offer services behind the stumps in the absence of Ouma once again.Karim, who has been impressive in most games despite his slow innings, will also be expected to lead the batting that also includes the NPCA League top scorer and captain Rakep Patel.Other batsmen, who have won the confidence of the selectors are Alex Obanda, Dhiren Gondaria, Narendra Kalyan, Collins Obuya, Gurdeep Singh, Karan Kaul and Rushab Patel. Obanda has had a lukewarm season, where he only scored one century. However, his performance saw him finish the league in third place.Kalyan makes a comeback in the team after missing a couple of matches due to work commitments. Collins Obuya will also expected to use his long experience in the team in ensuring that batting carries the day in Kenya s match over unpredictable Hong Kong.Otieno s long-time new ball partner Nehemiah Odhiambo will be tasked in leading Kenya bowling attack alongside Lucas Oluoch who is returning to the team after missing the quadrangular due to an injury.The other seamer in the squad is Eugene Maneno. Nelson Odhiambo who had a good season with Kanbis will be expected to play a key all-round role in the team. Shem Obado is the only outright spinner in the squad.Squad: Rakep Patel, Nelson Odhiambo, Dhiren Gondaria, Narendra Kalyan (Kanbis); Shem Obado, Collins Obuya (Stray Lions); Nehemiah Odhiambo, Alex Obanda, (Swamibapa); Karan Kaul, Lucas Oluoch, Rushabh Vadrhan Patel (Nairobi Gymkhana); Eugene Maneno (Kongonis), Gurdeep Singh (Sikh Union) and Irfan Karim (unattached).