Mudavadi on Sunday said the move endangers Kenya's vast interests in the country and within the region.He said Kenya stands to lose a lot in terms of economic interests in South Sudan and that the move would further destabilize the neighbouring country and endanger many lives. Kenya has everything to lose if the civil war in South Sudan escalates. There is no need for the Jubilee regime to antagonize South Sudan government, rebel former VP Riak Machar and the UN , Mudavadi said in a statement he released before visiting Elgeyo Marakwet county.Kenya ordered an immediate withdrawal of its troops following the sacking of Lieutenant General Johnson Mogoa Kimani Ondieki.Ondieki was dismissed by UN chief Ban Ki-Moon as the head of the peacekeeping force in South Sudan after serving for six months.Read: Furious Kenya pulls troops from South SudanMudavadi said the government should not mishandle the situation in South Sudan at the expense of the lives of Kenyans and other people whose lives are threatened by civil war. The withdrawal comes on the heels of a threat to Kenyan interests and citizens following a diplomatic goof of deportation of Machar s spokesperson that was also mishandled , he said.More on this read: Machar rebukes Kenya for spokesman's deportation, calls for releaseMudavadi described the president s reaction as a strange diplomacy of frustration that borders on despondency". A deceptive helplessness he brings to fighting corruption is the same attitude he takes into the diplomatic arena. Our international obligations cannot be dependent on one incident. The moment partners know we easily succumb to provocation, it will be the beginning of being ignored as whining fellows , he said.Also read; First batch of Kenyan troops arrives from South Sudan after Uhuru orderMudavadi accused the Jubilee regime of practicing a policy of ethnic exclusion meant to facilitate corruption. They only want people who speak their mother tongue around them. You must also qualify as corrupt so as to sit on the high table. We know people like David Kimaiyo was okay as IG until he said no to corruption , he said.He said Kimaiyo was not incompetent as claimed to have him removed from office.Mudavadi reiterated that a forensic audit be carried out on the Sh38 billion lease equipment contacts for hospitals since the government doesn t want o own up on the same secret contracts They have gone quiet and are diverting public attention to the sh5.3 billion. I am telling the Parliamentary Committee on Health that they are being blindfolded not to peruse the Sh38 billion scandal, he said.He said the only way to tackle corruption is for opposition to come together under National Super Alliance (NASA), win elections and establish a clean government. Uhuru has been my friend. But I am sorry, the country comes first. Jubilee is beyond redemption , he said.Read: Raila chides Uhuru for pulling KDF out of S.Sudan, move driven by anger, madness