The corruption scandals are narratives by the opposition aimed at derailing Jubilee s programmes, the President has said.Uhuru Kenyatta said Cord leader Raila Odinga is hoodwinking Kenyans on corruption to derail the development agenda.The President said the opposition leader has no clear agenda for the country. He spoke in Naromoru, Nyeri, when he launched construction of the Narumoru-Ngaring iru-Ngobit Road.Uhuru cited 2007, saying the economy grew up to seven per cent. The President said the opposition leader spreads divisive politics, which ruins prosperity. We are focusing on negative and divisive politics. Recently, when we allocated money to put up a referral hospital in Nanyuki to ease pressure at the Nyeri Level 5 Hospital, the same person said money has been stolen, Uhuru said.He said the Jubilee administration is putting up systems which will spur economic growth. The President said the tarmacking of the Narumoru-Ngaring iru-Ngobit Road will ease movement of people and goods, and improve access to markets for farm produce. This is historical. For the first time, we are launching the construction of a tarmac road in Laikipia county, Uhuru said. The President said the government has set aside Sh80 million for the modernisation of the Naromoru Hospital to help residents access specialised care. He said residents are currently forced to travel long distances to Nyeri town to seek services, which could easily be accessed within the hospital once the facelift is complete. The millions of shillings we are allocating to this hospital are for putting up a modern theatre, X-ray machines and other modern equipment, Uhuru said.The President commissioned the construction of a modern market at Chaka trading centre, which he said will be a model to be replicated throughout the country.He said the market will be a one-stop shop for all activities as it will serve wholesalers, retailers and value addition industries. This market, in addition to serving farmers, will also have banking services and everything required by residents when they go shopping, Uhuru said.Deputy President William Ruto dismissed propaganda against the government, saying Jubilee will not be easily distracted.