Commonwealth Games marathon champion Filomena Cheyech cruised to victory in the second edition of Saitama International Marathon yesterday.Cheyech pulled away from an ailing Ethiopian Amane Gobena after 25km to win in a course record of 2:23:18 for her sixth career title and first in Japan, where she spent four years from 2007 running for the Uniqlo corporate team. Today I m very happy to win here as Japan is my second home, said the 34-year-old Cheyech.Gobena, affected by stomach upset, held on to finish second in 2:25:58 during the race staged 30km northwest of Tokyo. Kenya s Monica Jepkoech was third in 2:28:56 while Ethiopian Atsede Habtamu placed fourth in 2:29:44.Cheyech s victory ended a marathon title drought dating back to her gold-medal run at the 2014 Commonwealth Games. Her winning time was also the fastest since she posted her personal best of 2:22:44 in winning the Paris Marathon that same year. I have not won a marathon and not run such a time for a while, so I m very happy, said Cheyech, who finished fifth in Tokyo and second in Amsterdam in 2015, and sixth in Boston earlier this year. I prepared for this race for about five months. After Ethiopia s Atsede Baysa won last year s inaugural race in 2:25:44, organisers tweaked the course to eliminate some of the tougher hills. But they left enough to Cheyech s liking. This course was very nice, she said, adding: I m used to this kind of terrain when training in Kenya. On a clear day with temperatures reaching 18C, the four Africans formed the top group with two pacesetters as they went through the first kilometre in 3:10. Race officials had set a target time of 3:24 for the rabbits, and they eventually settled into that pace as the leaders went through the 5km mark in 16:51. At the beginning the pace was very fast, Cheyech said. But after two/three kilometres, it cooled down. And then after 15km, it started picking up. By 20km, Cheyech and Gobena started shedding Jepkoech and Habtamu, and had opened a 13-second gap as they went through the halfway point in 1:11:50.Then disaster struck Gobena, who had finished second in Tokyo in February in a PB of 2:21:51, the fastest in the Saitama field. I prepared very well, but what I ate last night didn t sit very well and my stomach became very upset from about 21.4 km, Gobena said through an interpreter, adding the culprit was a pizza sauce. But no matter what, I wanted to reach the finish. With the final pacesetter peeling off after 30 km, Cheyech had a solo run to the finish outside Saitama Super Arena, site of the 2006 world basketball championship. The course also took runners past one of the football stadiums used for 2002 World Cup. I felt good and I said I have to try my best, she said of approaching the finish.Mizuho Nasukawa was the top finisher among a thin Japanese contingent, winning a last-stretch dash with Australia s Cassie Fien for fifth place in 2:33:16, a time that will hardly be good enough to earn a place on Japan s team for the IAAF World Championships London 2017.