Seven women and five men have been offered deals to play professional club Kabaddi in India.This follows the national teams impressive performances at the just concluded Kabaddi World Cup staged across Punjab State, India. The players include stoppers captain Mercy Obiero, Leah Wambui (asst skipper), Camilla Cynthia Atieno, Cecilia Wakarimi (KDF), raiders Sophie Ayieta, Alice Chebet (KDF) and Lillian Nthiga (NYS).The male players are Kenya Prison Training College duo team captain Hollis Ochieng (raider), stopper Levis Nato. Others are assistant captain Moses Wandera (raider), and stoppers Juma Kevin and Robert Abwao.The women s national line-up finished fourth in the eight-team tourney and the men s side placed seventh in the bonanza that attracted 15 men s sides. The girls lost to New Zealand 42-21 in the third place playoffs. Kenya Kabaddi Sports Federation president Matthew Mwangi said the move is a sign of good future for the game in Kenya. This is a very good progress for the country; the door is just opening for the game in Kenya. We wish them well when they join their various clubs across India next year, he intimated. The Indian season kicks off in May.Kenya also received an invitation from Canada and the outing is set for August 2017. This will serve as a build up ahead of the seventh World Cup in 2018. The United States of America and England on the other hand requested to be hosted in Nairobi. Tanzania, sponsored by the Indian mission to Tanzania, too expressed interest and asked KKSF to notify them once the date is set. KKSF have subsequently scheduled the tour for March 2017 on a tentative basis. We are more than glad to host the three countries, and we look to also invite India, who are the mother nation of Kabaddi, to the tournament. We have to really appreciate the technical bench for both teams and the players themselves for putting up strong and competitive show at the World Cup that has attracted interest in Kenya, added Mwangi. India won both the men and women s titles, beating England 62-20 and the USA 42-10 respectively in the finals.