Former Devolution CS Anne Waiguru has fiercely defended herself in Parliament against claims she masterminded the Sh1.6 billion NYS heist. In a combative session on Thursday morning, she was grilled by an aggressive House Public Accounts Committee that is probing the theft.She said she had never met NYS suspect Josephine Kabura, who told the committee on Tuesday Waiguru helped her do the fraud. She rebutted claims made on Wednesday by former PS Peter Mangiti that she was the architect of the fraud.Mangiti claimed he prevented Waiguru from stealing another Sh3.5 billion from NYS while Kabura said Waiguru helped in NYS tenders.Read: I stopped Waiguru from taking NYS Sh3.5billion But speaking to the PAC, on Thursday, agitated Waiguru lashed out at the two saying they have no evidence to accuse her of the fraud."Every witness has been at pains to link me to their actions. Kabura has been lying under oath. There is not a single telephone conversation between me and Kabura," she said.Waiguru maintained they have never met or interacted. Kabura had told PAC on Tuesday that she knew and even worked with Waiguru.Read: CS Waiguru helped me at NYS - Kabura"There was a linkage between these individuals (Kabura and Gethi). I put it on record, I have never seen Kabura live; I don't know her," she said."Investigative agencies should be called and give data of phone conversations."Behaving like a bee who has been attacked by an invader, Waiguru took more than 20 minutes launching attacks to Kabura."Kabura has said everything evil about me. She picked on me because she was told by her puppeteer to pick on me," she said."The Kabura who wrote the affidavit was not the same person who appeared in the committee."Noting that there is an intricate network involved in Kabura's case, Waiguru said she is someone else's puppet."Clearly Kabura is a puppet; who is her puppeteer? Kabura was picked by those who wanted to use her to cover up their dealings," she said.Waiguru said Kabura is not a sole proprietor of her 20 companies. Kabura claimed that she owns the companies and manages them all.Read: Kabura tells PAC she owns, solely runs 20 companies in NYS probe"She has co-directors in some other companies. She should stop lying," Waiguru said.The former CS claimed fraud occurred at the NYS not by the use of IFMIS system but by the people who were entering the data."When they were entering some LPO'S they would add a zero at the end. The invoices and LPOs should have been what they were paid but when they were entering the data things changed," she said."The IFMIS system is not the problem. The system is as good as the people who manage it."Waiguru further claimed she had never met former deputy director Adan Harakhe.Read: Former PS Mangiti tells MPs Waiguru forced him to sign Harakhe job"I have never met Harakhe. He was transferred in November 2015, I had not met him prior to that and I never hurried his appointment as alleged by Mangiti," she said.Waiguru struggled to pronounce "Harakhe as Halakhe" an indication that she did not know the existence of this man.She claimed Sh695 million was salvaged when former Director General Nelson Githinji was removed as AIE holder and Harakhe took over."They keep implying that Harakhe was made AIE then the money was stolen, the money was stolen before that," she said.But she noted that when Githinji left the NYS he still accessed the IFMIS system.Earlier, Waiguru, accused of masterminding the NYS heist, scolded MPs for what she called bias.She faced the National Assembly PAC on Thursday over the scandal, initially estimated at Sh791 but raised to Sh1.6 billion by the Auditor General.Waiguru, wearing a black, white and blue patterned dress and gold jewelry, began by requesting assurance the hearing would be fair, implying it was a witch-hunt and the judgement was pre-determined.More on this: Waiguru scolds PAC members for biasRead:Ben Gethi: Waiguru fixed me over NYS Also read: Frustrated MPs turn to Bible verses during Josephine Kabura NYS scam grilling