The European Union yesterday urged civil society and legal system to act on corruption. The EU Deputy Head of delegation Bruno Pozzi said the government must deal with corruption, despite the obstacles.He said the EU is greatly concerned with the levels of graft and delay in cargo clearance by the Kenya Ports Authority. He also said although graft is a global threat, Kenya s civil society must lead the fight against it.Swiss Ambassador Ralf Heckner, during a delegation visit at the port, asked what measures have been put in place to reduce the cargo clearance period. He said failure to act will hurt business.This came amid admission by KPA that capital, cargo evacuation, interface of document processing, off-take, space and overstay of cargoes at the port are the greatest challenges it faces.The delegation asked how the handling of container will be linked to the new standard gauge railway. Heckner said harmonisation often remains a great challenge. You are expanding the port, you are modernising the infrastructure, how will these things come together? he asked during a boardroom meeting at KPA yesterday.Heckner said the EU wants to know how Mombasa's economy has benefited residents since the introduction of devolution. What is the economic role of the port when it comes to Mombasa and the Coast? he asked.Heckner said these are some issues the EU is concerned about and that informed their visit to Kenya.KPA corporate affairs general manager Edward Kamau said they are building up capacity ahead of demand. He said this has greatly reduced the period of cargo clearance. Ten years ago, it would take us 12 days to clear cargo, but now it s only three days, he said. Kamau said they have automated the system for cargo clearance.Kamau said an inter-agency task force has signed a performance contract. It is comprised of the KPA managing director, customs, Kebs and police. Its task is to track performance at the port and report to President Uhuru Kenyatta monthly. He said the terminal operating system is being changed to effectively deal with cargo handling. Kamau said KPA is working on a Special Economic Zone to be developed in area around the port to create employment for locals.