The longstanding hope among East Africans over life in America is now overshadowed by widespread fear, just in case their son - Barack Obama - is succeeded by Donald Trump in the upcoming Presidential elections. Hope and panic in this election compete in equal measure, making it a unique one that could either uphold Obama s legacy at the Oval Office or obliterate it with the election of Trump and slam brakes to all the perceptions, dreams and ambitions that emigrant communities and the world at large have for the United States. Interest in US electioneering has remained heightened here since 2008 when Obama became the Democratic Party contender. This interest was sustained in his re-election campaigns in 2012 and it is now inevitable that Kenyans pay greater attention to the 2016 election. If Africans ever had doubt about America, then Obama s election confirmed a long held conviction by progressive forces in the US that America is the land of opportunity where all humanity, irrespective of their race, gender or religion have equal opportunity to live by and attain their dreams. According to the Migration Policy Institute, Eastern Africa States had 530,000 migrants in all America by 2013- representing 35 percent of immigrants from Africa. Kenya s share was 110,700. East Africans go to America for education and economic tenacities. These migrants are economic messiahs to their families at home. The Central Bank of Kenya latest data says remittances to Kenya increased by 6.3 percent in June 2016 compared to 2.3 percent in May 2016. With these figures to show, any threat to evict East Africans from the United States or anywhere else where they draw a livelihood must be flagged instantly. Such threats mean gloom to the families who have found economic renaissance and sustenance from the US through the millions of dollars that are remitted each month. That is why Trump s remarks are coming into sharp focus because they have put East Africans at the horns of dilemma. If he wins, there will be no jobs and worse, they would be headed home. Campaign reports repeatedly capture Trump saying he would evict Kenyans in the United States if elected President. His campaign clearly shows that the only agenda he has for Africa is eviction and hatred. Kenya s opposition leader Raila Odinga says Trump has no policy for Africa. "I don t know if the republicans have a policy on Africa. If they have it, I did not hear it, says Odinga. Trump s bold diatribe against minorities means that his presidency must trigger fright and hopelessness in the region, whose residents make up the minorities in the US The fears are best captured by the Governor of Kenya s Makueni County Kivutha Kibwana: Trump is saying that Kenya is not a preferred country; there will not be Human Rights guarantees for minorities including African Americans if he wins. This must worry all right thinking human beings because his agenda is as radical as it is ultra- extremist. As a governor, I have nothing to look forward to Trump because his presidency would certainly be problematic for Kenya. His radicalism sounds dangerous, if not terroristic, for the free world . Nevertheless, Kibwana sees Trump s entrepreneurial skills as something people could cling onto as they seek opportunities to trade and adds This region needs to prepare for any eventuality He says Africa is looking forward to a Clinton victory So that it is confirmed beyond doubt that America is what it portrays itself to be. Her Presidency would be refreshing as it would be first for a woman and it would complete the picture emerging from Britain and Germany that women have come of age to provide leadership to the free world That Clinton could become the next President is a dream shared in this region and Africa as a whole. With her victory, the world would virtually be in the hands of women!