Two sisters have been resecued from their house in Nakuru s Shabaab estate in which their landlady locked them for more than a month over rent arrears .The students who attend separate universities in Nairobi said the doors were locked from outside pending their mother's settlement of the Sh40,000 arrears.The elder sister 22, said she was in Nakuru on industrial attachment.''I came for attachment last month. The house was locked during the day while I was asleep. Mom had already left for her workplace,'' she said.The mother, who has been staying at a friend's house in a nearby estate, had been taking food to the two, through a living room window.Police broke into the house on Tuesday evening and rescued the students.Nakuru police boss, Joshua Omukata said his office responded immediately after they were tipped off. 'Our officers were on patrol the night before when they heard of the incident from area residents. We raided the place and rescued the girls through a window,'' he said.The mother, who did not want to be named, said she could not pay the rent and opted not to involve police in fear of victimisation by the landlady, who had contacted auctioneers.''It is true that I had arrears. I was working on getting the cash but it unfortunately took longer than I expected. I feared to talk to police because I thought they would arrest me instead,'' she explained.She added that she failed to reach the landlady to convince her to release her children.''I have been trying to reach her on phone but she has not been answering. I personally looked for her in vain. So I opted to look for money to clear the arrears so that my children could be released," she said."I have paid sh19,000 so far. I am looking for the remaining 21,000."The police boss cautioned that it was against the law to restrict a person's movement by locking them inside a house for that long."People are normally given a motnh's notice before any action is taken,'' he said, adding investigations were underway and that action would be taken.The landlady did not answer calls for comment on the matter.