The Indian government and three state-run firms will jointly set up an equity fund of up to $2 billion (about Sh203.04 billion) for renewable energy companies. This will enable them tap into to help New Delhi meet its clean energy goals, two government sources told Reuters yesterday. Private and public companies will be able to dip into an initial amount of more than $1 billion starting next fiscal year, said the sources, with direct knowledge of the decision taken after a meeting of government officials more than a month ago. India s government hopes the Clean Energy Equity Fund will attract pension and insurance funds from Canada and Europe. Around $600 million (Sh60.91 billion) of the initial pool will come from the National Investment and Infrastructure Fund, under the Finance ministry. The rest will be obtained from state entities NTPC Ltd, Rural Electrification Corp and the Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency, according to a source that declined to be named. Officials at the Finance ministry, New and Renewable Energy ministry, NTPC, Rural Electrification, and Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has set a target of raising India s renewable energy target to 175 gigawatts by 2022, more than five times current usage. This is part of the fight against climate change by the world s third-biggest greenhouse gas emitter in a bid to supply power to the country s 1.3 billion population. The programme will depend on getting as much as $175 billion in funding with 70 per cent of that likely in bank loans and the rest as equity, the sources said. The government believes loans are not a problem, but providing equity to investors may be difficult due to uncertainties over returns, a source said. As we expand our clean energy capacity, there may be a shortage of equity next year.Private equity is seen as risky in India but if the government itself creates a fund, that gives a lot of confidence. India s clean energy push was set back earlier this year when US solar company SunEdison filed for bankruptcy. The company is now looking to secure partners to see through its planned India projects. Nevertheless, companies are still keen to invest in clean energy. Japan s Softbank Corp, Taiwan s Foxconn and India s Bharti Enterprises have pledged to invest about $20 billion in India s renewable sector. Japan's Softbank Corp, Taiwan's Foxconn and India's Bharti Enterprises have pledged to invest about $20 billion in India's renewable sector. Global solar giants like First Solar Inc, Trina Solar Ltd and Fortum are also expanding their presence.