There was once a carpenter, and oh what a great carpenter he was. He had a workshop, where one would sometimes see him moving about, and he had the tools: hammers, wood chisels, planes, squares and even sophisticated carpentry power tools, the kind that buzz and use electricity. The carpenter knew a great deal about carpentry, it s all he talked about; regaling everyone with tales of all the wonderful furniture he could craft from wood, and how exactly he would go about conjuring these amazing pieces of what can only be described as wood-art furniture. But there was one little problem with this carpenter: nobody ever saw anything he made, because he never made anything. If you hired him to make a simple table, a table nowhere near the grand designs he always talked about, a day would never come that you would have a table, made by him, at your house. It was one excuse after another with this guy. If it wasn t that he couldn t find the right material to work with, it was that there was a power blackout, couldn t use his tools, got caught up in traffic, and so on. This is a story many Kenyans can relate to. Carpenters, figuratively speaking, who have obviously studied their craft, talk a great deal about the many things they can do, and who draw up amazing plans, but when it comes down to it, they don t do much. We have anti-corruption agencies that talk about fighting corruption, draw up plans, and there s even some movement in the workshop but no sound of hammers. We re losing family to road accidents. There s been talk about reducing death by car, there are plans, there is some movement, and yet, not a table in sight. Now normally when you hire a carpenter to make you a bed, chair, or stool and he doesn t do it, you don t keep paying him. You look for someone who can and has, and even then, you listen out for the sounds of hammering and the rasping of a wood saw.Strange, then, how we keep paying public servants with our taxes and there s not much to show for it; not a wood chip in sight.