Several civil society groups have asked Uhuru to voluntarily step down for &quot;abetting graft&quot; or face a forced ejection. Haki Africa, Team Courage, Coast Network and Commission for Human Rights and Administrative Justice said they will launch a revolt if the President stays put. They said on Sunday that they will organise mass protests until the August 8, 2017 general election for Uhuru to be removed from power. The lobbies also said they will push Parliament to &quot;extreme limits&quot; and ensure the President is impeached on grounds that he has failed to end corruption. They said they ensure citizens make Uhuru a one-term leader by voting him out through a secret ballow, should these two approaches fail. &ldquo;We will ensure Uhuru leaves office if he fails to resign,&rdquo; said activist Boniface Mwangi of Team Courage. A demonstration Mwangi led last week turned ugly after police officers beat protesters with batons and fired gunshots to disperse them. There was also an exchange with journalists who were filming police action against the protesters. Read: Kenyan police beat anti-corruption protesters, fire tear gas Also see: Photos: Police, goons turn on journalists in Mafya House protestsMwangi said the government will resort to targeting them but that they will not cower. &ldquo;When we see the President, we see corruption. He must deal with his sister and take her to jail,&rdquo; he said.Uhuru&#39;s sister Nyokabi Kenyatta and cousin Kathleen Kihanya are directors of a company that allegedly pocketed Sh41 million in questionable payouts. Read: Uhuru sister, cousin were paid Sh200m Health cash[VIDEO] We got Sh41 million health tender legally - Uhuru cousinThe groups spoke at the Haki Africa office &nbsp;in Mombasa amid investigations into the Sh1.6 billion National Youth Service scandal and claims that health officials stole Sh5.3 billion. &ldquo;Corruption has become more than a menace to the Kenyan society and the losers are the hard working Kenyans who are trying to eke out a living,&rdquo; said Haki Africa executive director Hussein Khalid. The lobbies called for the firing of all CSs and Principal Secretaries implicated in corruption.&ldquo;We also call for the freezing of all of their personal bank accounts and assets with immediate effect pending investigations,&rdquo; said Khalid.The activists claimed the&nbsp;National Intelligence Service was aware of the grand scams but was covering them up. The gov ernment has claimed some acts against the President in relation to corruption amount to treason. Mwangi said the government initially denied there was an NYS scam and said it was only a matter of time before it said the same about the Mafya House theft. &ldquo;Uhuru had denied the NYS scandal, but Ruto later admitted there was one,&rdquo; he said. The lobbies urged Kenyans to wear red every Thursday as a mark of protest against corruption. &ldquo;The Red Thursday Movement Against Corruption will be a way for the common man or woman to communicate their anger and demand that action be taken to end corruption,&rdquo; said Khalid. Also read: Raila coalition calls mega demo targeting 1 million Kenyans over Sh5b health scam &nbsp;