Mwamba skipper Dennis Ombachi, Strathmore backs Elton Isiaho and Alex Olaba and Impala Saracens winger Ian Minjire have been dropped from the national Sevens team as the head coach Innocent "Namcos" Simiyu named the final 21 players to be contracted by the Kenya Rugby Union for the coming HSBS World Sevens Series.Initially 25 players had been selected by the National Sevens Selection Committee based on their performance during the concluded National Sevens series.Simiyu was given the task of whittling the number down to 21. The players are set to receive contracts by next week. These will run until August next year as the 2016/17 season closes. Simiyu has handed four players debuts. Kenya Commercial Bank s Darwin Mukidza, Kabras Aluda Beda and Brian Tanga as well as Impala s Derek Mayar made the final squad.Simiyu admits it had been tough selecting the final squad bearing in mind the players had given their their all during training. What determined the selections were the few areas the players still needed to work on.Simiyu maintained 14 players from the squad that finished seventh overall in the concluded 2015/16 HSBC Series while recalling Dan Sikuta, Martin Owila and Cyprian Kuto. It was not an easy task since all the players gave their best during training. Unfortunately, we had to work with a final squad of 21 players, down from the initial 25, and that meant we had to pick our best from the team. The four players have been told to work on the specific areas they had not done as well as they could have, said Simiyu. Competition was stiff during the training and we had to finally turn to conditioning and hard work to arrive at our selection, he added.The team departs for Namibia on Monday for a week-long training camp ahead of the Safland Sevens that will run as from November 12-13 at the coastal city of Swakopmund.The team, whose travel has been jointly facilitated by tournament sponsors Safland and The Swakopmund Dome, features 12 players with previous Sevens World Series experience led by captain Andrew Amonde. Cyprian Kuto, Alvin Otieno, Oscar Ayodi, Sammy Oliech and Collins Injera will not feature in the competition as they are rested for the Dubai Sevens. We will use the Safland Sevens tournament to guage our charges ahead of the Dubai Sevens in December. We hope to have a good season this year as the players are ready and charged to meet our opponents, he added.The Safland Sevens will be Simiyu s first job with the team and he will up against the defending champions South Africa, USA, Germany, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Botswana and Nigeria in the eight-team competition.Kenya Sevens Final Squad: Andrew Amonde (C), Martin Owila, Darwin Mukidza (KCB), Dan Sikuta, Brian Tanga, Aluda Beda (Kabras Sugar), Cyprian Kuto, Alvin Otieno, Oscar Ayodi, Bush Mwale, Leonard Mugaisi, Augustine Lugonzo (Homeboyz), Sammy Oliech, Derek Mayar (Impala Saracens), Oscar Ouma, Nelson Oyoo (Nakuru), Frank Wanyama, Eden Agero, William Ambaka (Kenya Harlequin), Billy Odhiambo, Collins Injera (Mwamba).