The state will freeze assets of four directors of companies linked to the Sh45 million Malindi healthcare syndicate. The companies Daima One Enterprises, Zohali Services, Makegra Suppliers Ltd and Kilingi Investments are all based in Nairobi.They do not have branches in Kilifi county. According to a search court warrant obtained on October 18 by a multi-agency team of detectives, Sh45,455,825 was wired to the four companies in early October under unclear circumstances. A source who sought anonymity told the Star the state will seek to deregister the companies. "According to the new laws on fraud, the assets of the four directors will automatically be frozen and the companies deregistered. This is a serious offence. How can someone supply nothing to the county and millions of money be wired to their accounts?" he said. The Star has established staff in the Health and Accounts departments have been meeting secretly in Kilifi and Malindi hotels.In a letter dated November 8, county secretary and the head of public service board recommended that head of accounts John Kalume step aside.The reference number was CG/KLF/P/No.2009123839/VOL1/15 and was signed by Owen Baya. Kahindi's password was reportedly used to facilitate the transactions. "This is to direct that you hand over office to the chief officer - Finance and economic planning under the supervision of the county executive committee member - Finance and Economic Planning works by today November 8 by 12 noon," reads the letter. Several county officials, including Finance executive John Kombe, his Health counterpart Timothy Malingi and head of procurement Matano Choge might be prosecuted for allegedly colluding in the fraud.A tough-talking Malindi EACC boss George Ojowi said several top officials have written statements and they are waiting for a final report."No medical equipment was supplied.These are individuals taking the nation behind. They can run, but they cannot hide. We are even monitoring their movements," he said.