My recent two-day whistle-stop tour of Harare in Zimbabwe was a stark reminder that we should not believe everything we see, hear or read in the media. On invitation by ZiFM , a leading local radio station, I opted to populate my two-day diary with as much as I could in the land of President Robert Mugabe. After a stormy start, avoiding lightning strikes and a heavy downpour at OR Tambo Airport in Johannesburg, I did not know what to expect of this nation. Arriving in Harare shortly before midnight, I immediately noticed that ours was the only aircraft at the Airport, which had a provincial feel about it. The warm smiles and friendly welcome by my host quickly allayed any fears that I may have had. At the Miekles Hotel which has a heritage dating back to the early 20th Century I was escorted to the comfort of my room. The brown water from the taps was somewhat a disappointment. I spent the next two days holding meetings in Harare with various leaders in business, media and political circles, as well at touring the amazing city. The city is endowed with wide avenues and is impeccably well designed. The era of land grabbing, road encroachment and boda boda has not crept in. The disciplined public transport system and all road users were a pleasant surprise. What struck me most was the outgoing, amiable and positive spirit in which the citizens who, despite going through uninspiring political and economic moments, seem to make the best of the situation. A tour of two supermarkets, as is my habit when visiting African countries, impressed me by the wide array of locally manufactured consumer goods. Despite the glaring need to improve the presentation and packaging of most products, Zimbabwe clearly has a productive capacity and burgeoning manufacturing class. From dairy products, detergents and cereals to cutlery and beef, the products all proudly display the Made in Zimbabwe label. A visit to three different restaurants Organikks in Chidipite, Fishmongers in Arondale and a steakhouse in Samlevy was a delightful experience. It confirmed to me that despite all the negative press coverage Zimbabwe receives, not all of it is valid. The food was delicious, service exemplary and prices pocket friendly. No doubt they put their best foot forward in this regard.Retiring to my hotel at the end of the day, I was immediately struck by a story on CNN TV on the ongoing Bond Notes controversy, complete with people lying in the streets, left me wondering how many people would take that side of the coin when confronted with nothing in the alternative.The business forum where I made a presentation entitled Africa Rising Fact or Fiction was both engaging and insightful, with responses from Norman Moyo of Econet and Davison Nurupiri, my counterpart at the Zimbabwe National Chamber of Commerce, made for an interesting session. We intend to formalise our link with the ZNCC by signing an MoU to exchange more trade delegations and enhance trade and investments.It would be hypocritical to imagine there isn t a dark side to Zimbabwe, or to any other nation for that matter, but my short sojourn was enough to convince me that it s a country worth watching. It is certainly set to rise in tandem with the rest of Africa where six of the 10 fastest growing economies are. With intra-African trade at a mere 12 per cent, there is plenty that Kenya and Zimbabwe can do to enhance this. Kudos Zimbabwe! Keep Hope Alive!