Police yesterday arrested and detained Laikipia North MP Mathew Lempurkel for allegedly assaulting nominated MP Sarah Korere at Interior CS Joseph Nkaiserry s office on Monday.Nairobi police commander Japheth Koome said Lempurkel will spend the night in police cells before appearing in court but did not state charges to be pressed against the MP.Koome said police have not concluded investigations into the matter but there is enough evidence to charge the Lempurkel. No one is above the law. You commit a criminal offence, you are arrested and charged for it, Koome told the Star on phone.Lempurkel allegedly stormed Nkaiserry s office after the CS held a meeting with Korere and a delegation of MCAs and grass root leaders from the Laikipia County. Korere had brought the leaders to meet Nkaserry over insecurity in some parts of the county. She did not leave Nkaiserry s office immediately and Lempurkel arrived and demanded to know why she brought the leaders to meet the CS. Korere slapped and kicked her on the stomach demanding to know why she had brought the delegation. He slapped me then kicked me on the stomach. It was unexpected because I could not expect him to go that far although we have not had a good relationship after I declared to contest the Laikipia North parliamentary seat, she said at the Nairobi Women s hospital. Female legislators earlier yesterday mounted pressure on the government for prosecution of Lempurkel for allegedly assaulting Korere. Six lawmakers led by Kenya Women Parliamentary Association chairperson Cecily Mbarire asked Nkaissery and IG Joseph Boinnet to ensure Lempurkel faces the law. We want to see action taken. Enough is enough. We are concerned woman can be threatened, beaten up and no action is taken," Mbarire said.Korere and Lempurkel reportedly engaged in a brawl at the Harambee House in Nairobi where they were to meet Nkaissery. The cause of the fight has not been established although Korere claims that Lempurkel confronted her asking why she had taken a delegation including MCAs from Laikipia County to Nkaissery's office. The MPs condemned Lempurkel for sending an abusive text message to Korere asking her to withdraw the assault case, quit politics and drop her political ambition for Laikipia North seat in 2017. "We want women seeking political seats to be respected and given space. We won't tolarate anyone and women should be given a chance in leadership," Murang'a woman representative Sabina Chege said. The legislators said that Korere should be given additional security because her life is in danger from Lempurkel's threats and abuses. Other female MPs present at a press conference at Parliament Buildings were Rachel Shebesh (Nairobi woman representative), Naomi Shabaan (Taveta), Rachel Nyamae (Kitui South), Maison Leshomo (nominated), Regina Ndambuki (Kilome) and Joyce Lay (Taita Taveta woman representative).