Coke Studio has made it easier to enjoy watching and listening to music from the TV show via a mobile phone. The show that was shot in Kenya saw various top celebrities jet into the country for the production. Among them was American RnB star who was besotted by the vibrant urban culture of Nairobi.Read his thoughts here --&gt; [Photos] Trey Songz loves Kenya's matatu culture likens it to 'live studio'Trey Songz fell in love with Kenya. During his stay he got to record a with popular African musicians. Now, fans can stream all that music on a new platform available to andriod mobile phone users.Waithera Kabiru, Digital Marketing Manager, Coca-Cola Central, East &amp; West Africa, expounded on the role the app will play on the consumer journey. We are very excited to launch the Coke Studio mobile app, as it will enable millions of youth around Africa who love music to be able to access great content on their phones. Through the mobile app, users are able to listen to content on demand from the TV show via audio streaming or video, and download the music or create playlists for future listening she said. It s truly a revolutionary experience .Speaking during the launch, Simon Kariithi, the Internet and Mobile Director for Samsung Electronics East Africa expounded on their involvement with the app. Samsung is a global leader in innovation, and we always have our consumers at heart. By embracing a platform like the Coke Studio mobile app, we believe that we have an opportunity to create great experiences for our esteemed consumers as they discover new music. Hosting this application on our Galaxy Apps store is part of our ongoing commitment to technology and consumer trends, he said The app, which gives consumers a chance to listen to and discover music from over 50 African artists, is available in 5 languages: English, French, Portuguese, Swahili and Amharic, making it a truly Pan-African experience.The Coke Studio Mobile App launch is timely and relevant for the African continent, particularly in Kenya where there is a high mobile subscriber rate of 70% and growing smart phone usage. A 2014 study by Ericson predicts that mobile subscriptions will reach 930 million in 2019. This growth is attributed to the growing advancements in network, accessibility of cheaper smart phones and data plans. Also read: [PHOTOS] All the glitz and glamour at Trey Songz private Nairobi concert