A few years ago, I joined some friends on a road trip from Johannesburg to KwaZulu Natal in South Africa. To the consternation of the Kenyans in the car, the Swiss friend who was driving observed: These roads are so bad! They are not well marked. We thought: You must be kidding, but he was not. We were surprised because for us the roads were good. There were no potholes; they were well-lit; by Kenyan standards, they were marked. We were from a place where it is not unusual to drive not only on an unmarked road (read: Waiyaki Way) but one also with potholes.But this might change if a new initiative on Twitter (@whatisaroad) is fruitful. The eponymous hashtag is meant to be a data-based resource to use when citizens engage with relevant government bodies. @whatisaroad crowdsources information to map potholes in Nairobi and determine which neighbourhood has the worst potholes. The initiative is a collaboration between volunteers passionate about strengthening governance, says one of them, Melissa Mbugua. The bigger plan is a longer-term mapping of the whole city to look at where potholes are fixed the fastest, says @whatisaroad on Twitter. We are working with relevant stakeholders, including the county government, to ensure online activism leads to results on the ground, says Muthuri Kinyamu, the project coordinator. After mapping the potholes, we take a further step to identify who is responsible - Kura, Kenha, the county government contractor - to seek answers. The initiative is currently concentrating on Nairobi county but hopes to expand to other cities. However, the online activity is already extending to other areas in Kenya and on the African continent.In their quest to map our potholed roads, @whatisaroad is asking Nairobians to take a picture of the road with their GPS on or describe the location by road or street or a nearby landmark. According to the National Transport and Safety Authority, fatalities as a result of road accidents have increased slightly: 1,340 fatalities were reported in 2014, while 1,344 were reported in 2015. A comparison on accident data from January 1 to August 11 2015 indicates that the death toll has reduced for the same period in 2016. There were 767 people who died from road accidents in that period in 2015 and 710 who in 2016. From the data provided on the website, one can only get statistics on the type of injuries, which are categorised as slight or serious, and the number of deaths. The cause of the accidents cannot be determined from the data provided. One cannot help but wonder if potholes contributed to these accident stats.However, anecdotal information suggests that potholes cause accidents. Recently, a friend shared how she had an accident when her car hit a pothole while travelling from upcountry on a road that was not well lit. As she was travelling with her husband, all she could think of was what would have become of their children had the accident been fatal. Who would take care of the children? Luckily, no one was injured, though the car was damaged and had to be towed away.A scan of the tweets using the #whatisaroad indicate that motorists suffer losses as a result of hitting potholes on our roads. Sample this:@swankyLuo said: The road between Taru and Voi almost made my car get disability relief from KRA...waaaa. #WhatIsARoad. The KRA is the Kenya Revenue Authority, which gives tax relief to people living with disabilities. One can only imagine the damage on the car.The hashtag is also attracting funny quips on the state of roads that do not have potholes but are strewn with garbage.@davidbolo73 said: #whatisaroad: In the Kenyan spirit of generosity, drivers, pedestrians &amp; garbage harmoniously share a road in Pangani.Nairobians are also using the platform to question the county government s spending on roads. After Governor Evans Kidero tweeted a newspaper article indicating the county has repaired 1,300km of roads, @TheBahati asked: How can 1,300Kms of Nairobi roads have been repaired when we have #WhatIsARoad? Give us a list and pics. Code4Kenya has a similar initiative, RoadRatio, an interactive platform that will allow citizens to find out what county roads the government has paved. It would also allow the citizens to find out how much their county has allocated to roads and infrastructure. Road Ratio gives citizens an opportunity to check the ranking of their county against the other counties with regards to percentage of paved roads.The power of Kenyans on Twitter (KoT) is real. I am looking forward to seeing #whatisaroad contribute to changing the face of our roads.