I must have eaten at innumerable restaurants over the past year alone and yet Ali Barbour s Cave in Diani Beach will forever be such a memorable highlight of my life as a gastronome. Dining under the constellation of the night sky in a largely unmodified coral cave which National Geographic dates to be over 150,000 years old will have that effect on even the most critical among us.Despite it being outside official opening times, the owners give us a sneak peak when we pop in around 4pm. Walking in through the doors into the first chamber, we take the winding staircase underground into the bar and lounge area. When it starts to get dark, the waitress lights up the candles and Arabic lamps set up around the room. They give off a beautiful warm glow as they bounce off the coral walls. We come back for dinner at around 7pm dressed in fancy little dresses and sandals because the cave has a smart casual dress code but we re also on vacation. As the waiter shows us to our table, I can t help but glance up at the large gaping hole in the chamber which conveniently serves as the skylight. It is a beautiful night. I bet many a ballad has been composed at this very spot! The sight of our appetisers placed at the table shock me back to reality. A dressed crab and apple salad (Sh700) for my friend, and champignons la proven ale for me (Sh700). This is basically sliced mushrooms cooked in white wine and tomatoes, garlic and other herbs to form a thick sauce which is then slathered on toast. For the mains, I have the tagliatelle seafood Barbour s style (Sh 2,400). The pasta is cooked in tomato and cream sauce with prawns, calamari and crab, topped with a fresh, tender and lightly seasoned grilled lobster tail complete with a slice of lemon to give the dish a tangy balance. My friend has a classic lobster (Sh3,950) accompanied with green vegetables and rice. The portions are big and we re both so stuffed at the end, and yet we had placed orders for all three courses at the beginning. We soldier on. For our final course my companion has the crepe suzette (Sh850) which is two light crepes that are soaked in orange liqueur and flamb ed at the table then served with a scoop of vanilla ice cream. It is a play at different temperatures and flavours, making it the perfect way to cap off your dinner - you'll especially enjoy the theatrics that come with its preparation. I have the lime semifreddo cheesecake (Sh750), and absolutely love their modern twist on this classic treat!I chat up Tracy Barbour whose family owns the restaurant. Her grandfather settled here from Scotland and didn t know the cave existed when he first bought the property in the 1950s because of the water level. As kids, Tracy and her siblings used to run around playing hide and seek in the chambers, and 35 years ago, the family finally decided to turn it into a restaurant (although if her father had his way, it would have probably been a casino).Total cost of three course dinner Sh 10,200Cigars and extensive wine list available.CONTACTS: +254 714 456131 +254 735 331002 OPENING TIMES: From 7pm(Children aged 6 and below not allowed)STAR RATING: 5