One thing that was delectably obvious at the recent Greek Food Festival held at the Dusit D2 is that the Greeks love their olive oil. Most of the foods served at the table had an inkling of olive oil.I asked why olive oil, and was answered with why ugali? and that set off the culinary experience that was enjoyable and quite satisfying.For the starters we had shrimp cooked in tomatoes, octopus, white beans in olive oil, Greek Salad and chicken soup. My favourite from this group was the octopus, which I had never had before. The pieces of octopus, cooked in olive oil, were firm without being chewy. For those who love cheese, the Greek salad is the best selection as it comes with a huge serving of feta cheese mixed together with tomatoes, sliced cucumbers, onion, and olives. When it came to the main meals, we sampled baked fish, lamb chops and mousakka, served with rice and meatballs. Mousakka is a casserole made from minced meat, potato and eggplant, giving you three levels of taste. It is neither savoury nor sweet, but something in between, making it a delectable meal. For the lamb chops, their crispiness made them quite a favourite with the audience. They are served with olives and cherry tomatoes to give it extra flavour.My favourite meal was the baked fish, which came with a coating of tomato and sprinkled herbs. It was crisp on the outside and soft on the inside, giving your palate a nice contrast of texture. For desserts, we sampled sweet pastry tempered with coconut and syrup, and strawberry trifle. The sweet dishes marked the end of our meal, which was accompanied by traditional Greek music.The festival ends on November 19.MEET THE CHEFBorn in Drama in Greece, George Papadopoulos started his career as a chef at 15. Now at 44, he has prepared and served meals to different audiences across the world but is currently the executive chef at the Domotel Hotels and Resort, responsible for cuisines in seven hotels.Papadopoulos loves cooking simple meals made from fresh products. His favourite meals include lobster passion fruit sauce and foe gras, a luxury food product made of the liver of a duck or goose that has been specially fattened.The largest group he has ever cooked for consisted of 1200 people, something he says was quite easy. If you have 1200 people, you organise for 1200. It is that simple, he said.Among the people he has cooked for include politicians and diplomats in Greece and Albania, where he was for two years.The main secret to his work ethic is having everything in place for the meals he is set to prepare. First you need [the space you are working in] to be clear, then you check all the products and fridges then you start to cook, he adds, saying for him this is a typical day in his kitchen only changing when it comes to events.TitbitsHe has four Hellenic gold medals.He was responsible for meals made for the inauguration of the Cathedral in Tirana.LOCATION: 14 Riverside Drive, NairobiCONTACT: +254 20 4233000Star rating: 4/5