Kenya survived some numerous stoppages to announce return to international cricket with a three-wicket win over Hong Kong at Nairobi Gymkhana.Chasing a target of 223 to win and boost their chance of reviving their return to top class cricket, Kenya survived late scares from Hong Kong after losing wickets at crucial stages amid rain stoppages before registering the win.Nelson Mandela gave Kenya a much-needed start after winning the toss, when he picked three wickets to reduce the visitors to 58 for 3 after nine overs. Captain Rakep Patel cleaned up the tail with five wickets.Kenya chase was first halted by rain in the fourth over with the board at 19. After the play resumed, Alex Obanda survived a dropped catch by Nadeem Ahmed with the board at 31. Obanda and Irfan Karim went on to lift the scores to 47 after 8.2 overs before Obanda was finally caught on 29. Karim and Dhiren Gondaria took Kenya to the hundred runs mark in 10 overs with Karim reaching half ton in the 24th over.Three balls into Karim s half ton and with the board at 117, Ahmed spilled another chance when he dropped Gondaria on 37. But four overs later, Ahmed finally held the ball when he easily caught Gondaria on 45. With 83 to win and Kenya two wickets down, Kenya lost the wickets of Rakep and Karim in span of five balls.The skipper was trapped on four before Karim was caught in the 32nd over with 73 needed.Collins Obuya began his inning well with three quick boundaries before the skies opened with the board on 159 after 34 overs. After the game resumed, Duckworth Lewis came in play and the target was revised to 209 and the chase received a huge blow when Obuya was carelessly run out with the board on 163.Kenya were six wickets down after 36.2 overs when Rushab Patel was caught. With 39 runs needed from 57 balls, Kenyan inning was once again brought to a halt when the rains came down again. When the match resumed, Kenya lost Mandela with 15 runs needed.But Narendra Kalyan and Nehemiah Odhiambo got Kenya past the finish line with an unbeaten stand of 20 runs. Earlier, Mandela put on a spell of his life to give the Kenyans a good start on home soil. Odhiambo gave Kenya the breakthrough when he had Kinchit Shah caught in the fifth over with the board on 39. Hong Kong were two down when Mandela got his first wicket. He dismissed Christopher Carter three overs later with the board on 49 before adding two more wickets to reduce them to 86 for 4. With this score, Hong Kong looked headed to post a low score but Anshuman Khan saved their inning with a 92 balls 90.