Manchester United Vs Arsenal Saturday 3:30pmI don t like the managerial statistics on this game simple because my boss Arsene Wenger doesn t have any stats to speak of. Wenger and Man United boss Jose Mourinho have met competitively 15 times. Mourinho has won eight times, they ve drawn six times and Wenger s only win against him was in the Community Shield last year. How very exciting for me!The two teams have played each other 213 times, Man United has won 89 times while Arsenal has beaten the Red Devils 75 times. The two teams have draw 49 times. But of course most of these matches were played before any of us were even born.In recent years United have had the upper hand over the Gunners but last season Arsenal got one over the Red Devils in terms of goals. We lost 3-2 at Old Trafford but thrashed them 3-0 at Emirates stadium. Based on this season s form, the Gunners have the upper hand.We are 4th in the standings, six points ahead of United - who have struggled somewhat under Jose Mourinho - despite the Portuguese tactician bringing in all sorts of superstars during the summer transfer window. Arsenal will be without Hector Bellerin who is now out for a month, while there is no return date for Santi Cazorla whose also injured.Wenger insists he ll make a late decision on Alexis Sanchez s fitness but he needs to play him and the Chilean wants to play! All the talk around United this week has been about captain Wayne Rooney partying at a wedding in the wee hours of the morning while on international duty.I think it s all being blown out of proportion but I love the distraction. Clearly Mourinho is already looking for an excuse for United s weekend loss! My Prediction: The Red Devils 1-3 The GunnersSouthampton Vs Liverpool Saturday 6pmSouthampton have a big task this weekend going up against league leaders Liverpool. I m not sure whether they should feel lucky that the international break may have interfered with the Reds flow because they were on such a high; or feel scared that Red s players did well internationally; in particular Philippe Coutinho.The Brazilian is in such superb form that I m glad Arsenal aren t playing them until next year. Jurgen Klopp has finally found his formula and it s working well; like clock-work. The Reds have lost just once this season; that 2-0 loss to Burnley; while the Saints have four losses behind them; including losing their last two fixtures against Hull and Chelsea.The Hull loss particularly must have dented their confidence considering it was Hulls second victory of the season; their first coming in their opening fixture of the season against Leicester. I don t know why I bother here but sorry to Saints in advance! My Prediction: The Saints 1-4 The RedsAtletico Madrid Vs Real Madrid Saturday 10:45pm The debate this week when it comes to the first Madrid derby in this La Liga season is whether Antoine Griezmann will line up for his team against Real.Griezmann got an injury while on international duty but luckily for Diego Simeone it wasn t serious. I just hope he plays this because it needs to be contest. Real are top of the league and the only unbeaten team in La Liga so far this season while Atletico sit 4th; with two losses already behind them.But in recent years this derby has been too close to call. Both managers in Simeone and Zinedine Zidane have mad respect for each other and both managers tend to change their style of play when playing against each other. My Prediction: Atletico 1-1 Real