ODM leader Raila Odinga has defended Coast Cord governors against corruption allegations.Raila said the manipulation of IFMIS and internet banking should be blamed for the massive loss of public funds at the counties. The opposition chief said his governors are clean.Kilifi and Mombasa counties are facing allegations of misappropriation of funds. Governors Amason Kingi (Kilifi) and Hassan Joho (Mombasa) are Cord members. Raila also said Homa Bay, Siaya, Nairobi and Kakamega counties, all of them his strongholds, are victims of IFMIS loopholes. His defence of the corrupt counties comes amid a public outcry over a possible loss of Sh51 million in Kilifi.Auditor General Edward Ouko has said Mombasa might have lost millions of shillings by failing to bank county revenue funds and dubious expenditures on the Council of Governors.Speaking in Mombasa on Wednesday, Raila said Kingi is not to blame for the loss of money in his county.Though he did not mention Joho s case, he seemed to be reading from the same script. The Sh51 million in Kilifi was lost between September 29 and October. It is said to have been wired into the bank accounts of five Nairobi companies. Raila said Kingi is not like President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto, who shield corrupt public officials during investigations. He said Uhuru and Ruto are specialists in shifting blame on corruption but Kingi is not like that.The opposition chief s announcement comes amid public outrage and accusations from Jubilee politicians that he plays double standards in matters to do with corruption.Jubilee has accused Raila of remaining silent on corruption in Cord zones. Raila said Kingi acted decisively and swiftly to thwart the loss of Sh8 million from the Sh51 million by calling for investigations.The passwords of 10 county officials were used to make the transactions both by IFMIS and the internet banking system. The officials have denied any wrongdoing.The ODM boss said on October 10 the matter was raised with the governor, who called for investigations. The Kilifi county government immediately suspended the officials pending investigation, Raila said.He said on October 11, Kingi wrote to CID director Ndegwa Muhoro and the county followed up with other letters to the EACC and the head of the banking fraud unit and cyber crime. On October 17, the governor called a meeting with the CID, head of the banking fraud unit and the EACC to demand a report on the probe, Raila said.Four days later, the ODM leader said Kingi wrote to the director of IFMIS in Nairobi and then led a delegation to deliver the letter and meet IFMIS officials, calling for speedy investigations. On October 24, the county government wrote to IFMIS requesting passwords used in the suspicious the payment be withdrawn or retired, he said.Raila said four days later, IFMIS wrote to the county and gave details showing which passwords were used. He said this proved that Kingi, one of the many Cord governors facing corruption allegations, was determined to get to the bottom of the loss of public money. The governor has not resorted to shifting blame. He has not resorted to saying someone else should deal with corruption, he said.Raila said Kingi did not declare anyone clean even before the investigations were launched. Remember when I said investigate [former Devolution CS] Anne Waiguru, the responses that I got? The insults that I received? That I was jealous of the good work that the government was doing? he said. Raila urged the Jubilee administration to learn how to deal with mega scams through the Kilifi government approach. He criticised Jubilee leaders who accuse him of remaining mute on the Kilifi scam, saying he was out of the country at the time.