Three United Nation rapporteurs yesterday condemned the recent violent crackdown on a peaceful protest against corruption in the Health ministry.They said beating protesters only angers and emboldens them as it sends the message the government does not care. It is especially repugnant when demonstrators are calling for government accountability, they said in a statement. Protesters led by civil society groups staged an anti-corruption demonstration on November 3 in Nairobi. Police broke it up using teargas and water canon.There were reports of gunshots. Thirteen people were arrested and later released. No one was seriously injured.The latest case to hit the headlines involves loss or irregular uses Sh3 billion. An interim internal audit raised flags over Sh5 billion. The ministry said that was exaggerated, nothing was misspent. But it is examining Sh3 billion.The condemnation was issued by UN special rapporteurs Maina Kiai (freedom of peaceful assembly and association); David Kaye (promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression); and Michel Forst (situation of human rights defenders).The human rights defenders have demanded authorities investigate use of excessive force and arrest of demonstrators and journalists. Beating protesters does not make their grudges go away. Rather, it intensifies them, because it sends the message the government does not care, they said. This approach does not foster a culture of dialogue, it fosters a culture of violence, exactly the opposite of what Kenya needs right now. They said interference with the right to freedom of peaceful assembly is inexcusable. The rapporteurs are part of the UN Human Rights Council. Protesters may raise uncomfortable truths, but holding people in power to account is a central function of peaceful assemblies in a democracy, they said. They expressed alarm at timing of the crackdown and said creating a peaceful free-speech enviroment is key to prevent a repeat of the 2007-08 post-election violence.