Jubilee Party leaders in Mombasa have come up with a strategy to make the party popular, despite corruption allegations against its administration.The leaders, led by Suleiman Shahbal, have agreed to defend the party against graft allegations by driving the counter-narrative that corruption is a national cancer that cuts across the political divide and not unique to Jubilee government.As many as 660 people will be selected to drive the agenda.At the constituency level, there will be a team of 10 people per constituency, who have oratory skills and public appeal. There are six constituencies in Mombasa county.The 10-man team per constituency will be assisted by another 20-man team at the ward level. Mombasa has 30 wards.Jubilee politician Ibrahim Babangida Khamis, who unsuccessfully vied for Mombasa governor in 2013, has been selected to head the Jubilee presidential campaign team at the ward and constituency level.He said the 660 people will be selected on a voluntary basis, dismissing notions that Jubilee will spend millions of shillings on the team. Those [remuneration and facilitation of the team] are modalities that will come at a later date. Jubilee is a party of volunteers. If there will be a token later, no problem, Khamis said. A meeting of all Jubilee aspirants in Mombasa held at the party headquarters in Nyali on Wednesday resolved to aggressively popularise the party.The leaders are putting up structures for the presidential campaign team, which will also mobilise people to register to vote.Each aspirant, according to sources who attended the meeting, will be required to counter corruption allegations against the Jubilee administration by highlighting graft allegations against counties, especially Cord strongholds such as Kilifi and Mombasa.They will highlight the steps President Uhuru Kenyatta has taken to curb corruption, including the sacking five of his Cabinet Secretaries, which show his seriousness about the fight.On Thursday, Shahbal said Kenyans are unfair to only point out corruption in the national government, saying counties, especially Cord ones, are also corrupt. Let us agree on one thing - corruption is our national cancer, whether it is on the Jubilee side, or the ODM side," he said. Why are we looking so far? Just look across the Mtwapa bridge in Kilifi. They cannot account for Sh1.7 billion. That is not a Jubilee government there. That is an ODM government. He said the corruption in Mombasa county is also shocking. If you look across the country, not a single ODM governor is not being accused, charged or implicated in corruption. So, let us not talk about one side. Corruption is a national problem, Shahbal said.The banker argues that it is not cast in stone that Coast is a Cord zone, drawing inspiration from the March 7 Malindi by-election when Jubilee put up a spirited fight in a Cord zone. Let us not forget that Coast in 2002 was 100 per cent Kanu. Where is Kanu? The time for ODM and Cord at the Coast is gone and now Jubilee will take over, he told journalists at the Tononoka Ground during final preparations for Sunday s Jubilee Pwani Movement launch to be graced by Deputy President William Ruto.