RAILA Odinga is the ultimate political choke artist. In American sports, to choke is the failure by an athlete or team to win a game they were highly expected to. We could, for example, say that Hillary Clinton choked at the last minute. A history of Raila s would have beens has now ultimately led to the National Super Alliance, the latest of his political formations that will soon enough choke at what some analysts think is a slam dunk for him.Nasa is a restive mix of contradictions in political careers, intentions, the law, strategy and sponsors. It has a generous history of betrayals between its leading lights thrown in with a huge motivational deficit. The alliance, fronted by Musalia Mudavadi, to be anchored by Raila Odinga with Kalonzo Musyoka, Gideon Moi, Moses Wetang ula and Isaac Rutto expected to waltz in later, presents an equation more difficult than quantum theory. Martha Karua has already bolted, declaring her candidature for Kirinyaga Governor and backing President Uhuru for reelection; a big blow to its aesthetic national appeal. Kalonzo Musyoka has already said that the inclusion of the others in the pool of candidates for the presidency is ...the beginning of betrayal and has already ratted on his chief enforcer Johnson Muthama as a Raila Odinga mole and asset.Nasa appropriates its form from the 2002 Narc dream that came a cropper barely a year into its life. The history of Narc itself should stand out as harbinger to the expectations around the newest political animal in town. In contrast though, Nasa has high expectations in its supposed strongholds but not half the enthusiasm that Narc had and none of the euphoria. The circumstances that created Narc are completely absent this time around, unless Jubilee breaks up and one of its core partners moves in to energize Nasa. The Nasa strongholds are in more of a despondent state than an angry one or a fed-up one, making it almost impossible to mobilize emotions the same way Narc had. All the actors in Nasa are too well known to the people, a familiarity that has led to contempt in certain sections of the population. The lack of a non-confrontational but able leader in the mould of Mwai Kibaki also presents a huge character deficit for Nasa. It is at best a shadow of what Narc was.The political careers of Nasa s leading lights have little to inspire a meaningful union. Raila is fast approaching the end of his occupation and is in the injury time of an illustrious if divisive career that has few friends left. For him it is now or never. Mudavadi is a lethargic politician who squandered his biggest Presidential opportunity in 2013, when the Jubilee duo had passed the baton to him for a few hours. While the blame has been placed on mashetani for the lapsed opportunity, truth is the blame lies squarely on Mudavadi for failing to enforce the biggest decision ever made in his political career. His clear lack of awareness on what was on the table, lack of political acumen and capacity were very well demonstrated in that episode. Had Mudavadi wanted to become President as badly as he would like us to believe, he would be President today. But Mudavadi failed and to this day the feeling is that his political career is more a happenstance of history than a real ambition for it. His heart and gut are not in this game. It is just a matter of time before he is completely eclipsed by other Luhya leaders who have what it takes to lead a nation. Kalonzo Musyoka is a lonely and entitled politician completely isolated from the centre of things. He has managed to hang on to his Ukambani base out of loyalty and a looming sense of pity is creeping into it. His latest political masterstroke in calling out his chief enforcer Johnson Muthama for betrayal is perhaps the biggest sign that Kalonzo still has what it takes to play in the game. His career has been one not used to hard decisions as fate has favoured and buoyed him into his current position. Five years out in the cold have however weathered the man, who now seems to have a sense of urgency but clearly no sense of direction yet. He is completely suspicious of Nasa and is unlikely to follow through with it unless he is the candidate or deputy at the least. His rhetoric, however, increasingly points to a man who is likely to end up on the ballot outside of any of the big two formations both for his own dignity, pride and a post-election pact; a huge gamble that may fail and render him political history. Running on his own is the easier decision, but what will ultimately save Kalonzo s career is a hard political decision, for which his disposition is currently not ready for. Moses Wetang ula lies between the anvil and hammer of his enemies. A resurgent Raila feels he does not need any proxies to secure Western for him. Raila indeed feels Wetang ula owes him his current position and unlike another previous Raila proxy, William Ruto, Wetang ula has failed in claiming the Bukusu Luhya cluster for himself. On the other side are two leading Jubilee lights in the Bukusu base; Bungoma Governor Kenneth Lusaka and Water and Irrigation Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa. Governor Lusaka is perhaps today Western s most buoyant leader, with a sense of confidence that is impossible to miss in his wry smiles and juicy anecdotes. He is strutting through Western, an avowed Opposition stronghold, like a man with a trick on his palms. His approval ratings in Bungoma are impressive, despite some bad press that has accompanied him. The confidence and political positioning he is getting in Jubilee and the political money that will be available to him will squeeze Wetang ula so thin he might readily snap before the big day. Water CS Wamalwa and his city political experiment, should that work, will deny Wetang ula the platform to promise any commensurate goodies to his people. Wetang ula is yet to become Presidential material and with so many chips against him, Nasa is probably his only opportunity to salvage his political career.Gideon Moi is a prince who is yet to convince the country he is more than that. For Gideon, his title is all the politics he seems to want. A political reluctance and insipient entitlement contradict the man for any political observer, leaving many to believe that his father, former President Daniel arap Moi, is still the player in this game. It is the older Moi who is politically disturbed by Gideon s future and has, according to sources, brought together the Nasa idea to provide his son a platform to challenge William Ruto for Kalenjin supremacy. Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto is a veritable political enforcer, only surpassed by Aden Duale, and is being lined up to enforce the Nasa idea in the Rift Valley on Gideon s behalf. Speculation as to who is the ultimate sponsor of Nasa is still rife. Its foremost advocate is Mudavadi, who is slowly being edged out of the news cycle with his newfound gospel. Mudavadi completely lacks the capacity to conceive and execute such a grand plan. He is unwilling to stake his political money on his career and doesn t have the think tank capacity for such political strategy. Mudavadi is simply a canary of a real think tank whose brainchild the whole idea is. Raila s continued pursuit of his ambition under ODM, though he has spoken of a bigger alliance, also completely puts him out of ownership of the idea. The Mois on the other hand are the unseen hand in the whole scheme, with both the capacity and intention to see Nasa through. In Nasa s triumph would lie William Ruto s fall and Gideon Moi s projection to the top of Rift Valley politics. When you follow the money, it all ultimately ends up at the Mois gate. An analysis of the historical interaction between all these actors in Nasa however leaves a huge trust shortfall that is its biggest undoing. The glue and fuel that would keep Nasa together is Raila. He is critical for this formation to take off and have any chance at power. His history with its chief sponsors the Mois however fails the test of loyalty. The history between the two political dynasties does not inspire confidence. It is the Mois that effectively replaced the Odingas and the Luos from the centre of power when Daniel Moi took over the vice presidency in 1967 and thereby entrenched Kalenjin and Kikuyu power. Any time Moi power has faced a threat from Kikuyu power, it has called on the Odingas to salvage them. In 1980, Daniel Moi approached Jaramogi Odinga for a detente that miscarried almost immediately and ended in the 1982 attempted coup. In 2002, Daniel Moi approached Raila for a political pact that ended with the humiliation of Moi at Uhuru Park as he watched and listened to his own evisceration. In 2007, Raila effectively stole the Mois Kalenjin leadership birthright and handed it over to William Ruto. It is too deep a history of betrayal to warrant the trust and confidence needed to deliver a joint political enterprise like Nasa. Even trying to use proxies, one hand removed, like Musalia Mudavadi and Isaac Ruto does not cover up a history of political bloodletting between the two dynasties. The contradictions in Nasa are both genetic and environmental. The expectations for it are high and may very well be the only reason it may come to life. It is made up of so many without a political base that shore its support to rival of any of Jubilee s core. It requires too much for it to work out with the distinct possibility that once one chip fails, the domino effect will leave it obliterated. This explains Raila Odinga s watch and see attitude towards Nasa. It is the kind of enterprise that once it pulls anchor, it must sail to harbour. The prospect of a ship wreck mid voyage is too large to ignore. Should Nasa take off then collapse, it will bring down with it all careers on board and lead to a political whitewash by Jubilee.In paradox, a political motivational deficit, almost apathy, to Jubilee domination is palpable in sections of the population. An angry opposition political class is however slowly managing to mobilize that anger in the people through the constant allegation of corruption and creation of a wedge between jubilee s core support and the country. Even inside Jubilee s core are political murmurs of disillusionment, with apathy being the main target. The contradictions in Nasa however make it completely incapable of seizing the moment. Nasa will choke even before the real game is on.