When Peter Kenneth recently announced his support for Uhuru Kenyatta in next year s election, speculation has been rife that he intends to rival William Ruto in 2022. Many Kalenjins and friends of Ruto, began to fret understanding that the Kenneth candidacy would be a game-changer. They feared that Ruto s bid would come to nothing if Kenneth were on the ballot alongside him. Many took to social media and local radio stations stating their fears. This situation suddenly catapulted Kenneth to the sphere of relevance putting him on the frontline in the race to succeed Uhuru.As things currently stand, many consider Kenneth s announcement that he would be in the Nairobi gubernatorial race to be of nuisance value. His actual target is the presidency in 2022. If that happens, he has the potential of winning a substantial Kikuyu vote which will effectively put paid Ruto s candidature. The Nairobi governorship is therefore considered a strategic move designed to maintain his political gravitas but not to actually win. It would ensure he remains relevant in the game as he postures for 2022. NO SURPRISES IN POLITICSThe entry of Kenneth into the picture has not come as a surprise. If Uhuru Kenyatta will win next year, the Opposition will be banking on Kenneth to split the Kikuyu vote and that way, their candidate will go to the House on the Hill. However, as for now, the Opposition is still struggling with the idea of a Super-Alliance which may just end the game before Kenneth is relevant. In pulling out of next year s presidential race, Kenneth is acknowledging the power of incumbency and removal of a sitting president would be an uphill task, particularly for him. This is why he is supporting Uhuru now but that is not the whole picture. He wants to use that support to leverage his own position for 2022. WHY RUTO IS SLEEPING EASYContrary to opinion, Ruto is however not having sleepless nights over the possible entrance of Kenneth into the race. There are two things that have positively happened to Ruto soon after Kenneth made his announcement. One, it has quietened the deep divisions over his candidacy particularly among his own Kalenjin base. This has afforded him much needed peace because, suddenly, they now see the possibility of losing the seat. The bickering stopped overnight. The Kalenjins, like many communities in Kenya, are best ruled by offering them a common enemy . Ruto is now thanking his gods for handing him a powerful enemy in Kenneth. The galvanizing effects of the common enemy strategy is very powerful. This has been Raila Odinga s strategy for many years and even today he is consolidating his presidential bid largely along the same lines. The second reason Ruto is sleeping easy is that, is that Kenneth is not that loaded. If you intend to win the Presidency, you need to budget many billions. Although the IEBC has set the presidential campaign cash-spend at Sh. 5.25 billion, but those aiming for the seat are budgeting at least three or four times that figure. For the moment, this far outweighs the net worth of Kenneth. In the last election, Kenneth had budgeted for Sh. 300m according to official sources. Money is critical in the presidential campaign and Kenneth will be using the interregnum between 2017 and 2022 to find his footing. It is not clear how he will get his funding but for the moment his personal resources cannot match those of Ruto and so with that, Ruto can sleep easy, at least for the time being. RUTO AND HIS ENEMIESUnfortunately, Ruto is sitting at the Jubilee table with far too many personal enemies. These people are likely to share their food with Kenneth and emasculate him to challenge Ruto in 2022. Ruto s might then be tempted to quietly identify the likely financiers of Kenneth and destroy them. This Machiavellian method was used variously by Moi when he began destroying Kikuyu businesses after the 1982 coup-attempt. Andrew Ngumba s Rural Urban Credit Finance, James Kahumbura s Prudential Bank, Joseph Gichui s Alliance Building Society/Nationwide Finance, Jimnah Mbaru s Jimba Credit among others. In fact to forestall possible collapse, Kahumbura made Wilson Kipkemboi Kipkoti a Tugen, his executive chairman at Prudential, but Moi s anger (hunger) could not be satiated. The bank crashed out. It appears that Moi was convinced that these banks or individuals would finance a possible challenge to his power. He morbidly feared anyone who had more money than he did. You were then much wiser to either incorporate him in your business or publicly support him or his friends. Ruto could very easily pick out Kenneth s possible financiers and give them very hard options.BASTARDIZING THE ECONOMYAn excellent student of that Italian thinker Machiavelli, Moi knew that the poor made stable subjects and so it was important to destroy some of those industries that supported them. He then embarked on a systematic bastardization of the economy knowing that it would help him rule better. Parastatals began to fail one after another including cooperatives and industries that supported farmers. You know that agriculture being the mainstay of the economy, this was bound to hurt. With a sycophantic political system, a dead parliament and a moribund economy, massive poverty followed as people began to grapple with biting shortages and lack of basic services. As if he was a one-man money machine, Moi would dole out unmeasured quantities of money from his pocket to sort out one or two difficult situations the people were facing or perhaps to just show his pleasure. Better still, he would organize a Harambee for them. Money for these harambees had to come from somewhere. You can guess where the money came from. Machiavelli says about that, It is the nature of men to be bound by the benefits they confer as much as by those they receive. That money made you forget yourself for a moment and turn your heart and mind to the giver for much longer. You were then caught in a gambler s expectation that you would get yet another portion if you remained loyal. Of course with Ruto s generous harambee contributions in so much demand, you can see why he should sleep easy.RUTO THE GIVERRuto is undoubtedly a generous man. He is a great (and cheerful) giver unlike any politician on the market today. He gives, and I highly doubt if he keeps account of the largely ad hoc and extemporized giving. Unlike Kenneth, he firmly believes in Harambee , the term given to Kenya by founding father Jomo Kenyatta meaning to pull together . This was a rallying call to respond to the massive challenges that faced Kenya at Independence, and so Kenyan s were called upon to give to support one another (Self-Help). The concept was down-up meaning the people put together their money which was then used to build a dispensary for instance. Slowly however, the whole idea of giving began to take a political turn and was used instead to buy loyalty. It now became top-down . The politicians gave the most money in an act of great populism and in the process fanned the fire of corruption. When the NARC government came, they neutered Harambee but that was like removing an addict from his addiction. Harambee continues unabated, and you should see the kind of requests that Ruto receives to preside over this or that fundraiser. I wonder why other politicians are not approached. In fact, don t bother calling Raila for a harambee. He won t come. And while he has crafted a whole philosophy around why he doesn t like harambee, with more than half of Kenya being poor, Ruto has a weapon in his hand. This will be one up against Kenneth.THE RENASCENT KENNETHRuto has the advantage of having been on the frontline and has built a much higher national and even international profile than Kenneth. However, Kenneth comes with a good name, a very good and largely clean name at that. Not having been associated with major scandals and an excellent performance track record, he will be acceptable to those who want Kenya to have a fresh start. He is also perceived as safe not coming with great baggage from Kenyatta/Moi times like Raila or even Ruto, Kalonzo, Wetaa and Mudaa. Also being of mixed-race, the Nairobi-born Kenneth is something of a detribalized Kenyan and will not therefore seem beholden to one ethnic group. However, Ruto is quite an astute and battle-hardened politician, able to extricate himself from even the most difficult situations (remember his ICC battle?). Ruto will stop at nothing to ensure that he will beat Kenneth at the ballot and may even reach out to other communities to hedge his position should the Kikuyu decide to go to Kenneth. Even though he has seemingly burnt bridges in dealing with some of these communities, recent moves show that he is reaching out to them.Ruto also has a great political machine in the name of Jubilee. If it holds together, then it will offer him an easy ride to State House. It remains to be seen what kind of machine Kenneth can put together to match Jubilee. For now, Ruto is not sweating the small stuff with Kenneth s possible challenge.THEME OF BETRAYALRuto is hanging on the unwritten agreement with Uhuru Kenyatta to consolidate Kikuyu support for his bid in 2022 as he had marshalled the Kalenjin for him. The Kikuyu have been greatly vilified for being unwilling (possibly unable) to support anyone outside their own. The Kikuyu are however keen to shake away this tag. When Kiambu Governor Kabogo made the remarks that Ruto should not sit pretty waiting for Kikuyu support in 2022, he came under a sustained barrage of criticism by his own forcing him to retract. When Senator Paul Njoroge echoed Kabogo s words, he suddenly found himself a lonely man and reports have it that his associates quietly distanced themselves from him. It appears then that indeed that the Kikuyu do not want to be seen in negative light every time their name is mentioned politically. This is the plank that Ruto will be hanging on if Kenneth were to run. Whether that plank will keep Ruto afloat remains to be seen. The Kikuyu also understand that should they split their vote like they did in 1992 when they had Kibaki and Matiba standing against Moi, then indeed Raila Odinga or any opposition candidate, will easily get the vote to go to State House. It will therefore be in their best interest to have their vote with one man William Ruto who has been the first claimer. That should then give Ruto some sleep. But all said, it is always a good idea in politics to go to bed with one eye open.