Former Constitution Implementation Commission chairman Charles Nyachae and East Africa Legislative Assembly member Joseph Kiangoi will lead Jubilee campaigns in Kisii and Nyamira.Nyachae was picked to lead the team after he was named in the national campaign team. Kiangoi will be his deputy.Nyamira county assembly speaker Joash Nyamoko was named secretary during a meeting in Nairobi after the group met President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House.Others are Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi, who is fighting expulsion from ODM, former Ford People chairman Albert Nyaundi, Kitutu Chache North MP Jimmy Angwenyi, former Kitutu Masaba MP Walter Nyambati and Nyamira governor aspirant Charles Mochama.Kiangoi, a former North Mugirango MP and assistant minister, was nominated to the EALA by ODM but has since defected to Jubilee.On Saturday, Nyamoko said, We have held our first meetings where we agreed on various issues. We are going to dispel perceptions that Nyamira is a Cord stronghold. This team is formidable. In the 2013 elections, Cord leader Raila Odinga had 95,596 votes ( 66 per cent) in Nyamira, while President Uhuru had 54,071, 29 per cent of the votes.In Kisii, Raila had 236,831 ( 68 per cent) while Uhuru garnered 95,596 ( 27 per cent).However, the trend may change in 2017, Mochama says. The government has done several projects in the region and this will sway voters, he said.The move to leave out Kenya s Ambassador to UN-Habitat Sam Ongeri is raising eyebrows. Kisii Senator Chris Obure, who has also indicated he will ditch ODM, was not named in the team.Lawyer Edward Begi said, This team is weak but that is an advantage to ODM. It will be very difficult for some people who have never contested a seat to lead a campaign team. Deputy President William Ruto has made 15 trips to Kisii and Nyamira since 2013 to woo the community to Jubilee. However, some Cord leaders dismiss the trips as pointless.ODM leaders from Kisii on October 26 said the outcome of the Nyacheki by-election in Bobasi constituency is an example of what will happen in next year s polls. They said the people of Nyacheki, Kisii county, have shown how the community will vote.ODM s Naftal Onkoba won with 2,216 votes, while Jubilee s Maxwell Magoma came second with 1,173 votes. Caleb Ong uti was third with 979 and National Vision Party s Peter Moracha came fourth with 695 votes.