Kenya Sevens players will be entitled to Sh600,000 each if they win a leg of the 2016-2017 world series.The runners up position will see the players pocket Sh300,000 each while a semi-final berth will see them earn Sh150,000 each. Plate semi-final place will cost SportPesa will Sh100,000 for each player.Sportpesa chief executive officer, Ronald Karauri made the announcement yesterday when his company and Kenya Rugby Union unveiled the new Kenya Sevens jersey. Karauri further said: SportPesa is pleased to be the shirt sponsor of yet another remarkable team on Kenya s sporting scene Kenya 7s. It is an honour to be this deserving team s main sponsor taking after our esteemed national airline Kenya Airways which has done a commendable job so far. Kenya Sevens have made this country proud, most notably in April when they lifted the main cup title at the Singapore Sevens their first ever cup title win on the World Rugby Sevens series 17 years after making their debut on the series. KRU chairman Richard Omwela said: We are pleased with the partnership we have forged with SportPesa. Our Sevens team have time and again proven that they are world beaters and with SportPesa s input, I believe they can scale even greater heights. With this support, our players and management team can stay focused on their continued growth and success both on and off the pitch. Omwela further said: There is a reason rugby is referred to as a family thus, we would like to mention our associate Kenya 7s partners including Safaricom, KBL, General Motors, Dasani and Tatu City. We truly appreciate their collaborative support in sustaining long term development of the game. Omwela also paid tribute to outgoing shirt sponsors Kenya Airways, saying: We appreciate the support that Kenya Airways have accorded the Kenya Sevens team and KRU in general. It has been invaluable and has gone a long way in raising the team s stock on the global stage. We continue to work with our national airline closely as the promotion of their destinations through rugby is key to our travelling fan base and Kenya as a sport tourism destination. 