Mystery surrounds the Afrika Mashariki Fest after Athletics Kenya ordered the organisers to clear dues owed to athletes who ran during the Kampala edition of their half marathon before they can organize the Kenyan version in Mombasa next month.Athletes came out guns blazing following the event s launch last week, claiming that they are yet to get their prize money, allegations that have been received by AK. We have told them that they have to clear with the athletes who have ran in their events before we can give them the go ahead to host the Mombasa event, said AK president Jackson Tuwei. We have received the complaints from the athletes. The organisers have also acknowledged that there are money issues. He added: These issues never came up during our discussions and we feel that, to be fair to the athletes, the organisers need to clear their arrears first. Afrika Mashariki Fest group CEO Tendo Kisembo said the money issues are being addressed, adding that they are in touch with the athletes in search of an amicable way out.The Ugandan edition was held in May 31 while the Kenyan event is set for December 11. However, the organisers claim that remittance of the same from their main sponsor came half meal, calling for room for mutual understanding. We had a platinum sponsor who, in the course of our planning, had promised USD10,000. However, and to our dismay, the sponsor, on the eve of the Kampala race, informed us that he could only afford USD5,000, explained Tendo. This threw us off balance since our plans were that USD6,000 would be used for the cash prizes while the rest would be for logistics. We could not contemplate cancelling the event since everything else, on the ground was ready, including the arrival of the international runners. He said he has been in touch with some of the athletes, with a proposal to pay them half of their dues, but this has not brought anything forth. We never had a formal agreement with the sponsor and this has complicated things for us. At the moment, we have spoken to Athletics Kenya about the whole issue and we hope in the coming days, we will have a solution, added Tendo.The race has two-time world champion Abel Kirui as the headline act of their ambassadors who include Wilson Kipsang, Edna Kiplagat, Ezekiel Kemboi, paralympian Henry Kirwa, Ugandans Moses Kipsiro and Stephen Kiprotich and Tanzania s Moses Golola and Zaki Mohammed.