In the past week, the revelations of alleged graft at the ministry of Health have been nothing short of shocking. The cynics would say that official theft and plunder has become a national tradition, and Kenyans are no longer surprised at public officials, and/or their relatives, friends and hangers-on stealing taxpayers money. But they are wrong. Perhaps it is the figures involved here that are so mind-boggling that it is impossible to brush them aside with a weary toss of the hand. The corruption scandal at the National Youth Service last year was in the region of Ksh800 million. The figures being quoted around the Eurobond controversy, also last year, were just under Ksh1 billion. We re talking Ksh5 billion here. It s one thing to quietly skim off the top layer , in the parlance of Kenyan boarding schools (but still wrong in case we need to make that clear, relativity notwithstanding). But this was practically a ransack, a smash-and-grab so brazen that it was more than enough for the owner to notice , in the words of Chinua Achebe. Perhaps it is the fact that this was money meant for mothers and children, for sick people, for Kenyans at their most vulnerable. You could argue that NYS is rather distant in the consciousness of most Kenyans. There s a generation of Kenyans for whom national service was compulsory before joining university. But for us, the under 40s who make up 84 per cent of the population today NYS was just a horror (and sometimes, hilarious) story your older siblings and friends told you about, and you quietly thanked the good Lord you didn t have to go through it. And Eurobond even now, I m not sure many Kenyans can articulate what a Eurobond actually is. In this case, every single person in this country has been sick, or has had a sick relative, or has had a child come into the family; and most of us have something to say about the cost and quality of healthcare in this country. I ve seen and heard many young people this week extremely outraged at the revelations coming out of the Ministry of Health this week, even among those who otherwise say they don t do politics . Consciousness Perhaps these are the first sparks of some kind of broader critical political consciousness, among a generation that has been dismissed as shallow and self-centred, only living for the next like and selfie. Still, there are contradictions. The East African Institute at Aga Khan University has been conducting a series of youth surveys in the region, which give us a hint of the attitudes young people have on governance, corruption and the future. The survey found that young people were optimistic about having a prosperous, meritocratic future. More than three quarters (77%) said Kenya will be richer materially, will have better access to quality education and health, and will have more jobs for the youth. Two-thirds (67%) said society will reward merit and hard work. But simultaneously, nearly three-quarters (73 per cent) admitted they were afraid of standing up for what is right, and fully half (50%) agreed with the statement that it doesn t matter how one makes money as long as you don t go to jail. 47% said they admire those who make their money by hook or crook, which they defined as hustling , and 40 per cent said Kenya would be a more corrupt place in the future. More than a third admitted they would easily take a bribe. How is it that young people can be so rosy-eyed about the future, and at the same time seem have a low commitment to ethical behaviour? It could be that they expect Kenya to be so fabulously wealthy in the future that small acts of corruption would not make a dent in the overall picture. Dystopian The darker, dystopian view is that we have reached a post-zero-tolerance-to-corruption point, and we are now in a country where working your short-cuts, deals and connections are, by societal consensus, actually considered a legitimate form of hard work and merit. My own view is that the mere passage time does not necessarily represent progress; that there is no reason, necessarily, that younger people would have more integrity, or would represent change or progressive views. If anything, those in Kenya aged 40 and above have a sense of the stark decline in almost all sectors of life, which marred the 1980s and 90s. But for those who were born and grew up under the Nyayo Error, our sense of time was less well developed, simply by the mere fact that we were children. The past, obviously, did not exist; the present had an eternal sense of dysfunction. If anything, there is a grievance, now, that the older people are finishing everything . Zimbabwe is in the grip of a generational battle as President Robert Mugabe s sunset beckons. A few months ago a section of younger ministers, led by the 49-year-old Patrick Zhuwao (who is also Mugabe s nephew) came out very strongly against the abolition of an indigenisation law that made it compulsory for foreign businesses to be 51% black-owned. The older camp, led by finance minister Patrick Chinamasa (age 70), was ready to re-engage with donors and the International Monetary Fund to revive the battered economy, including by repealing the law. But Zhuwao s group opposed it, saying without it they would have nothing to do but go home and sit . His anxiety suggests that the students are even more hardline than their teachers, and more than anything, are afraid that there will be nothing to steal by the time they ascend to higher office. There s a depressing saying that youth is wasted on the young. I say history is the greatest weapon against squandering the future. Christine Mungai is a writer, journalist and executive editor of Africa data visualiser/ explainer site Africapedia.com