Africa cannot agree more with writer Abdul Mohammed s well-reasoned view that the choice for the next African Union Commission chairperson is too critical to get wrong. As he rightly points out in a recent article, the chairperson of the AUC is responsible not only for shaping Africa s economic and trade, political and security agenda, but also key in mobilising common African positions on global governance matters. He or she represents and champions Africa s voice on the global stage. The implementation of Agenda 2063, Africa s political and socio-economic development blueprint, is a key responsibility of the next AUC boss.What the continent needs is an AUC led by the very best. In this age of globalisation, the AUC needs a leader who pursues negotiation of partnerships and international engagements by African states as a bloc. Promoting the structural transformation of African economies and fast-tracking regional economic integration is the only path for a prosperous economic future, he adds.As Africa fills the position left vacant by Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, one of the candidates who fits Abdul Mohammed s bill and hence draws Africa s attention is Ambassador Mohamed, a legal expert with a Master of Laws degree from the University of Kiev and currently serving as Kenya s Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary. In this role, she has provided oversight to Africa s successful hosting of critical trade, investment and development conferences, in particular the WTO s 10th Ministerial Conference in 2015; the 14th Session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development in July and the Sixth Tokyo International Conference on African Development in August.Mohamed s distinguished diplomatic career started in 1986. Her strong personality and interpersonal skills have individualised her as a skilful and effective negotiator. This has enabled her to distinctively drive negotiations on multilateral fora and effectively articulate Africa s interests in the international agencies that she has served. On numerous occasions, Mohamed has galvanised Africa around issues of common interest, including the rule of law, trade and investment, peace and security, integration and migration. As she offers herself to serve Africa, Mohamed s vision for the AUC is founded on the continent s development blue print: Agenda 2063 The Future We Want for Africa, and an Africa destined for greatness. In this vision, Mohamed states that the path for Africa s continental growth and prosperity is no longer an aspiration but an unfolding reality. This is because, with gathering force, the ground has shifted and Africa today epitomises hope and opportunity. Ambassador Mohamed adds that seven of the 10 fastest-growing economies in the world are in Africa and the continent is steadily inching into the global limelight as a critical partner in global growth and development.Mohamed intends to nurture good governance and transparency within the AU Commission. The commission s role as an anchor for the Summit s sacred duty can only be effectively realised through close consultation and decision-making. She has already been endorsed by more than 27 African countries, including possible support from the 19-member Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa.Closer home, the East African countries have pledged their support. Rwanda has been particularly vocal in its support. These endorsements and her impeccable credentials put Kenya s Foreign CS in pole position. The support of 36 nations is needed to win on the first ballot.Dr. Hanningtone Gaya is the chairman of the Media Owners Association of Kenya and former chairman of Brand Kenya Board