A furious convict yesterday turned his anger on a magistrate, stabbing her twice after he was sentenced to three years in jail for assault. Michael Kahoro also stabbed and injured complainant Edith Adhiambo. Resident magistrate Eunice Kelly sustained wounds on her arm, just above the elbow.Kahoro was charged with assault on Adhiambo, an offence he committed last year. He has been out on bond and came in for the judgment. Adhiambo was rushed to hospital by court orderlies. She was stabbed six times.All was well in the tiny courtroom until Kahoro was asked whether he had anything to say before the sentence was passed.Prosecutor Denis Atiko said the convict had arrogantly urged the court to sentence him if it wanted to.But immediately the sentence was read, Kahoro fished a screwdriver from his pocket and directed his anger at Adhiambo, who ran towards the magistrate for help.But Kahoro pursued her undeterred and attacked her before turning to the magistrate. He grabbed the complainant and started stabbing her in the neck, prompting her to seek refuge from the magistrate s side, Atiko said.Atiko said a court orderly, incidentally a woman, tried to intervene but was hurt slightly on her hand, before Kahoro run out of the court.Atiko said the court orderly screamed and people ran to the nearby court rooms.Kahoro was apprehended outside the court. Deputy DCI officer Joshua Bahati confirmed to the Star the complainant was stabbed six times. The complainant was stabbed four times in the neck, one on her wrist and another on her thigh. The magistrate was stabbed on her right arm, above the elbow, he said.Bahati said the victims are recuperating in hospital. He said they are in stable condition, although they are still reeling in pain. The magistrate was rushed to Aga Khan Hospital for treatment before being taken for further scans at a local lab, Bahati said.He said the convict was later locked up in a police station and will be charged in court today.The courtroom was left littered with files all over the place.