For a second successive year, the hopes of a football club to survive the purge from the top flight league hangs precariously on the shoulders of young Gambian striker Ebrimah Sanneh.The forward s goals were good enough to keep Nairobi City Stars in the SportPesa Premier League last season and this afternoon in Machakos, he comes up against his former employers as he seeks to help Ushuru stay among the elite. While Sanneh has not been firing on all cylinders his role will be crucial if only for today as the tax men hope to hold onto the three point advantage they have over Sofapaka as the season draws to a close.Ken Kenyatta s men have endured a torrid second half of the campaign going a dozen matches without victory and should that poor run continue, then chances of them relinquishing their top flight status will only increase. Kenyatta rued his side s second leg performances that has dragged them into the mire and with only six points available and today s game the easier for them to keep Sofapaka at bay, he will be going full throttle for victory. I said that I wanted to win all the remaining games because our second half of the season has been quite poor. At this moment, I can say I am desperate for points. I want to win the next two games and I hope it will happen. Our survival depends on it, said Kenyatta.Sanneh will spearhead an attack that has suffered in front of goal-scoring just 23 goals in their 28 matches so far. Though they have already been relegated, City stars have promised to give their remaining couple of matches the utmost respect by performing to their best levels.Assistant coach Dennis Okoth, who like his skipper John Amboko, were particularly hurt by the team s demotion, said they will be seeking to go out on a high. We have two more matches to honour and we will put in a good fight. I hope the club shall remain strong and find its way back to this league, said Okoth.For them to get anything out of this match, the returning Jimmy Bageya will be crucial as will Jasper Mutie and Robert Ndungu both of whom have been in the score-sheet in City Stars ill-fated recent attempt to beat the drop.