Until recently they were a formidable, united Ukambani team. Now they are estranged.Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama's relationship has deteriorated to the point that Kalonzo says the senator is working for his downfall.Kalonzo is the region's supremo, long financed by Muthama, but his position is under threat.Political analysts cite two issues behind the falling out. First, Kalonzo believes Muthama does not support him as opposition presidential flagbearer and prefers ODM leader Raila Odinga. Second, Muthama concludes Kalonzo will not help him replace his political nemesis, Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua.Simmering tension erupted two weeks ago at a rally in Sultan Hamud when Kalonzo angrily accused Muthama of advancing Raila's interests. Kalonzo told Muthama to his face that he was working with Siaya Senator James Orengo to ensure Raila becomes Cord's flagbearer, at his expense. I am fully aware of what you have been doing behind my back with Orengo to predetermine the outcome of Cord presidential primaries and deny me the ticket. You must convince Wiper supporters the ticket you are pushing can deliver victory for Cord, Kalonzo told the crowd.He said Ukambani will not forgive Muthama. We nominated you to take care of our party interests in the Cord family, yet you are doing the opposite. The party faithful will teach you a painful lesson, he said. Your punishment will be worse than your humiliation when your trousers were torn in Parliament, he said, referring to an brawl over a controversial security law in 2014.Muthama had given Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana an ultimatum to dissolve his Muungano Party and join Cord through Wiper before next year s elections. The senator accused Kibwana and the real target of his remarks, Mutua, of leading briefcase parties to confuse Ukambani voters and end Wiper's dominance.Muthama suggested that even if Kalonzo did not clinch the Cord ticket, Kambas should rally behind whoever is picked. However, a bitter Kalonzo, who lately witnessed half of Ukambani MPs defect to Jubilee, blamed Muthama for the rebellion.Former Cabinet minister Mutua Katuku said the two should reconcile."This disagreement is unnecessary and untimely. We need unity. Whether it's Kibwana or whoever. We should not disband parties associated with the community. We must remain wise and politically focused," he said.Katuku added, "We can and should push our agenda together. Kambas cannot fit in Wiper but should support each other from different parties. If Kalonzo wants to be President, we will support him. He needn't worry. "A long historyKalonzo and Muthama s political courtship began during the gruelling Moi succession battle in 2002.The Kanu high command had plotted to sacrifice Kalonzo, former Secretary general JJ Kamotho, former Vice President George Saitoti and former assistant minister Mathew Adams Karauri.At that time, Kanu was orchestrating a political retrenchment and considered Kalonzo one of the hawks who were excess baggage and whom Raila insisted must leave Kanu. Raila had folded his NDP into Kanu and became secretary general of the united party.Four positions of vice chairman had been created in Kanu, each representing a populous region. Raila had plotted Kalonzo would not to get the Eastern region position and pushed for Joseph Nyagah. But Kalonzo s political mentor, the late Mulu Mutisya, prevailed upon Moi not to ditch Kalonzo. Muthama bankrolled a meeting at an Athi River Hotel where Moi was asked to ensure Kalonzo was a vice chairman.Later, when Raila, Kalonzo and Saitoti led a revolt against Moi for anointing Uhuru Kenyatta as his successor, Muthama funded and mobilised the Rainbow coalition s first rally at Mulu Mutisya Gardens in Machakos. Later he hosted members at his Mua home for lunch.Later, Muthama ditched Kalonzo and defected from Rainbow to Kanu and joined Kilonzo and Gideon Ndambuki to become Uhuru's Ukambani point men.However, the team of Kibaki, Raila, Charity Ngilu, Kalonzo, Moody Awori and the late Wamalwa Kijana beat Uhuru's team of Musalia Mudavadi and William Ruto.Come 2007, Kalonzo ran for President and at the height of the post-election violence, occasioned by ODMs' rejection of the results, joined Kibaki as vice president.The deal was brokered by Muthama, to ODM's chagrin. For this Muthama was awarded the powerful position of chief whip in Kibaki's PNU. The falloutDuring the coalition government, Muthama was the darling of PNU and Central Kenya politicians. He wielded so much power that he was consulted on key government appointments.The Kamba community, like other big communities, was angling to succeed Kibaki. Kalonzo assumed that since he had backed Kibaki, the President would reciprocate in the spirit of an MoU, which was only known to Muthama, the late minister John Michuki, former minister Martha Karua, and former Kibwezi MP Prof Philip Kaloki.But as Kibaki's second term was ending, Muthama was gravitating towards Raila.He waited until Kalonzo travelled abroad, then invited Raila for lunch at his Tala home, where he endorsed him. On returning, a furious Kalonzo denied ever sending Muthama to negotiate with Raila for any position. According to Kaloki, Uhuru offered Kalonzo the position of Majority Leader or House Speaker, before Muthama dragged him to the Raila camp where another MoU was crafted. This one was an agreement that Raila would rule for one term and then back Wiper. It failed to consider that Raila could lose.Next year, Kalonzo faces the choice becoming Raila s running mate or challenging him for the opposition ticket. Or he could join Jubilee or its terms so a position can be created for him.Ukambani leaders have mixed views on the current Kalonzo-Muthama falling out.Mwingi North MP Mati Munuve says the community should not pin its hopes on them."These people are unapologetic Kanu remnants. Their political trajectory is well known. They moved from Kanu together, hopped into LDP, then Kanu again, ODM and ODM-Kenya before settling into their private members' club, the Wiper Democratic Movement," Munuve said.The word 'Democratic' must be edited out because no internal elections have ever been undertaken," he said.Munuve, who now supports Jubilee, says the best Wiper can do is fold up."Only foolish people are engaging in small feuds in insignificant parties. Be sure Kambas will speak in one voice next year. We are bigger than Kalonzo, just as the Kalenjin community was bigger than President Moi. This you can take to a solid political bank."Kitui Central MP, Makali Mulu of Wiper, says the two will reconcile."Our leader Kalonzo and Senator Muthama mean very well for the community. They are saying the same things in different languages. There in no party crisis. What divides them is razor-thin. They will overcome it and unite us. Meantime, this party must tolerate other views. If need be, we shall sign MoUs with smaller parties. But the leadership structure must be well defined," he said.Kitui rural MP Charles Nyamai said the community will decide its future in time."We are studying this situation with an open mind. We shall interpret it with our people's interests in mind. Wiper does not exist in a vacuum. We shall in good time take stock of what people want and decide as a party. We recognise the need to dialogue and agree on the way forward," Nyamai said.The storm will pass, says Francis Nyenze, Assembly minority leader and key Kalonzo ally."Wiper is composed of mature, able and focused leaders. We will listen, reason together and correct mistakes. No leader should cast a stone against another. As the Holy writ prescribes, no man is perfect. And no one should harbor ill will against his brother," Nyenze said.