The presidential press service have faulted opposition leader Raila Odinga for criticising President Uhuru Kenyatta's decision to withdraw KDF from South Sudan.PSCU said on Monday that Uhuru's decision was undertaken constitutionally and included authorisation by the National Security Council. Needless to say, Raila Odinga is not a member of the NSC and therefore his statement is out of ignorance, the statement read in part.The statement comes shortly after Raila said Parliament and not the president has the mandate over the Kenya Defence Forces. It is Parliament, not the President, that has overall authority over the military," the Cord leader said in a statement on Monday. Indeed, the reason the President is the Commander-in-Chief of the Kenya Defence Forces is because he is a civilian. His position epitomises the civilian authority of the people of Kenya over their military."Article 239 (5) of the constitution says national security organs are subordinate to civilian authority.More on this: Raila chides Uhuru for pulling KDF out of S.Sudan, move driven by anger, madnessBut PSCU maintain that the President had the right to pull the troops. [Raila] imagines that Peacekeeping operations are about allowances and stipends given to our personnel at the Defence Forces. Our Soldiers do not put their lives on the line because of allowances and stipends. They are in Peace Keeping for the peace and security of Kenya, the region and the world. PSCU also took issue with the opposition leader s remarks that questioned the professionalism of Lieutenant General Johnson Mogoa Ondieki.The press service said it puts to question "the long-standing professional conduct of our military who have participated in many peace-keeping missions".Read: First batch of Kenyan troops arrives from South Sudan after Uhuru orderAlso read: Engage UN over withdrawal of KDF troops from South Sudan, Japan tells UhuruThey maintained recall is an exclusive operational mandate of the Commander-in-Chief, his Chief of General Staff and service commanders. That is the legal and constitutional position."It is clear that [Raila] has consistently misunderstood Kenya s Military. In the past, this misunderstanding of the institutional dynamics and ethos of this august institution made him think he could use it to overthrow a constitutionally elected government."The opposition chief had accused Uhuru for deliberately misinterpreting the law when he recalled Kenyan troops from Juba.Read: Personal emotions, pride making Uhuru pull troops out of South Sudan - Wetang'ula