Some things are just too difficult to comprehend. Take, for example, an unauthorised officer in government issuing export permits with a value of Sh1.9 billion. This is what happened in the Ministry of Mining, previously under the watch of Tourism CS Najib Balala (pictured) but now CS Dan Kazungu. Corridors has established that the export permits were issued in the previous financial year by the officer, whose employment contract expired on April 19, 2014. This is contrary to the Mining Act, which stipulates that export permits are to be signed off by the Commissioner of Mines or an authorised officer whose authority has been delegated in writing. We are told that an insatiable appetite for money is not like the starving person whose sole preoccupation is devouring food and quaffing water, and doing so with a vengeance. However, the love for money of one of the most prominent individuals in the country s top political family may have taken this appetite to other levels. Although it may not be easy to comprehend, Corridors has it that the octogenarian, who recently retired from public service, is said to have acquired over 3,000 acres of prime land in one of the counties that neighbour Nairobi, not for the purpose of turning it into immediate use, but for speculative purposes. Those close to the man cannot understand why he still has the appetite to continue accumulating despite his advanced age. However, he may be forgiven because it s only in Africa where primitive accumulation of wealth by the elites is still on the prowl, on all fours and with fangs bared. Is this another tragedy waiting to happen in the city? A city building that is under construction at the junction of Kenyatta Avenue and Kimathi Street in the space previously occupied by Nakumatt Downtown has pillars so weak that they appear to be bending. As this goes on, the department of Compliance and Enforcement at City Hall seems to be in deep slumber. Even more surprising is the fact that tenants have already occupied the basement and ground spaces even as the construction works go on. The city by-laws are clear: No tenant should occupy a building that has not been completed. Suppliers in Bungoma county are a worried and frustrated lot. The county government is reported not to have paid them for two years. The men and women are now threatening that they will soon unleash all the scandals, big and small, that have ever taken place in Bungoma county.