Mercy Deche joined the law profession by default over 23 years ago. She had no one to look up to in the profession during her formative school years, but she later came to love it with a passion. I wish I had a grand story of inspiration. I don t. I went for what people who were likely to pass were choosing at that time. There was this narrative that if you are sharp, you choose law. I chose law, says Deche.She has just started her five-year term as the female representative of the Law Society of Kenya in the Judicial Service Commission, alongside her former classmate and LSK male representative Tom Ojienda. It was tough because I had to criss-cross the country campaigning for this position. I am happy that I represent hope for those who practice their profession outside Nairobi, says the advocate, who is also a University of Nairobi lecturer.She wants to change the notion that only those who are closer to power (Nairobi) get positions. She is based in Mombasa. In the course of her law practice, she developed an interest in women s rights and joined the International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA), where she served as a council member for five years. I found myself gravitating towards the rights of women and children, says the lawyer who is also a Sunday School teacher at the Praise Chapel in Kizingo, Mombasa.Deche says the law is developing at a fast pace due to the new constitutional dispensation.This provides the perfect ground for impunity the Uta do? culture . Uta do is Sheng for What will you do? Laws are by themselves not magic bullets. If people have this uta do mentality then we have a problem, says the mother of three sons.Deche s view is that law enforcement mechanisms are either non-existent or are formulated in such way that they can be frustrated or circumvented.She defends the Judiciary, saying it is doing its part but there are limitations because implementation is outside the purview of judicial officers.She says it is not fair to blame the Judiciary for the failures of other bodies, especially in the war on corruption. We have an adversarial system of dispute settlement. The judicial officer is supposed to be a neutral umpire. If the investigators and the defence bring their stories, the judicial officers go by what the law says. You cannot blame them. QUOTES2015: We are in a critical era when both the letter and spirit of the Constitution are under assault from many quarters. I pledge to play my role with sobriety and steadfastness; always being alert and vigilant to ensure that the will of the people as enshrined in the Constitution is not undermined with regard to the mandate of the JSC. 2016: It is very disturbing to know that the people who should fear for their lives are those in the frontline in the war in Somalia, but here you are facing danger while just doing your ordinary business. Going to court is our ordinary business, but lawyer Willie Kimani was killed for that. It made me worry more, not for myself but for my sons. 2016: A man is more likely to be a victim of police brutality than a woman. It is like the youths are criminalised in Kenya. Their dress style will also be criminalised. 