Former nominated MP Mark Too says he legally owns the 200 disputed acres in Eldoret that Nandi Teachers Sacco claims to own.The land is adjacent to the Eldoret International Airport.Yesterday, Too produced documents indicating how he bought the land from Lonrho Agribusiness (East Africa) Limited for Sh11,243,000 and paid a stamp duty of Sh320,000.Too was subsequently issued with a title deed dated June 15, 2005.I have proof of ownership I have never conned anyone in my life and the same sacco officials are using me as a scapegoat instead of explaining where they took money collected from teachers, he told the Star in Eldoret.The former legislator produced a letter indicating that on July 9, 2013, sacco officials were summoned to appear before the district lands registrar in Eldoret on July 24 concerning the land dispute.The officials were to produce documents proving how they acquired the land. But they did not provide documents and refused to sign minutes of the meeting, which was also attended by officials from Lonrho. The office ruled that Mr Mark Too is the bonafide owner of the land based on documents and statements tabled and corroborated by the documents held by our office, then Uasin Gishu lands officer RJ Simiyu said.A representative of Lonrho, David Korir, said the sacco did not buy the land from them. The land had only been offered to Mark Too and no other buyer, he said.Prove you own the landToo wants the sacco officials to go to court if they have genuine ownership documents. He said the same officials had secretly bought land at Kipsomba and failed to inform the teachers. If they diverted the sacco funds for personal use, they should not use me as a scapegoat, Too said.Sacco shareholders Zachariah Kuto, Christopher Biwott and Sammy Sawe said the organisation bought the land from the East African Tanning Extract Company between 1999 and 2001. Original documents were removed from the file by Lands officials in Eldoret and new ones were put in 2014. We intend to take the matter to the highest court in the land, Kuto said. When we carried out an official search in 2012, the Nandi Teachers Sacco was still the owner. Now documents have been altered to show Mark Too as the legal owner. Sacco treasurer Biwott said, This is a case of fraud and we appeal to the EACC to help return the farm to the genuine owners. Too was chairman of Lonrho East Africa, which owned 40,000 acres including the disputed land and sold it to private developers.