Ananiah Mwasambu Mwaboza first made it to parliament after a by-election, necessitated by the death of the legendary coastal kingpin, Emmanuel Karissa Maitha. This was in 2004. Of interest is that among those who lost to him in that election was the current Mombasa County governor, Hassan Joho.Mwaboza himself had earlier lost to this same kingpin, whom he had boldly challenged in the 2002 general election.President Mwai Kibaki then appointed Mwaboza as an assistant minister for Immigration and Registration of Persons, subsequent to his being sworn in as the Kisauni MP. I started my political career in opposition when I contested the Kisauni seat and lost in 2002. Having tasted both sides, government and opposition, I prefer to be in government where the grass is greener, he says.After losing the 2007 general election, the Kibaki government rewarded him with a post as chair of the Catering and Tourism Development Levy Trustee.In 2013, he was appointed as the legal advisor on parliamentary affairs in the Office of the Deputy President. I joined politics because I wanted to bring change. Change is all about equity, justice and good governance. says Mwaboza.He believes that the people of the Coast must be at the forefront in pushing for full implementation of the constitution in memory of political supremos like Ronald Ngala, Jembe Mwakalu and Shariff Nassir who advocated for a Majimbo system of government. Under the constitution 2010, we didn t get the real federalism. We have a quasi-federal system. The Majimbo system was meant to bring resources down to the down-trodden members of the communities within the 47 counties. It s not being tribal but I ask, if it is in Kirinyaga you will find a Kirinyaga who is the governor and majority of the administration. The same applies to Kisumu, Garissa and even Samburu. Why is it that in Mombasa, we are not in that governance in terms of the numbers that we command? asks Mwaboza, who is a Mijikenda. There is no justice, equity and fairness. The former MP has set his eyes on the Mombasa governor seat in 2017 because the Sh22 billion the county has received as shareable revenue in the last four years has done little. He warns the Mombasa county government could be taken over by the national government. Especially if its leadership continues to operate in what may be called a continuous and unnecessary spat with the national government.In five minutes1972: Born in Mwandoni, Kisauni, Mombasa.1977: Francisco Di Almeida kindergarten before moving to Mtopanga primary school in 1979, where he sat for his KCPE in 1986.1987: Allidina Visram High school, KCSE the class of 1990.1992: Marathwada University, India, Bachelor of Social Legislation graduated in 1994.1995: Marathwada University, India, Bachelor of Laws graduating in 1997. 2001: Kenya School of Law, Diploma in Law.2004: Elected Kisauni MP on NLP ticket which he lost in 2007.2008: Appointed chair of the Catering and Tourism Development Levy Trustees.2013: The Presidency, legal advisor on parliamentary affairs in the Office of the Deputy President.Quotes2016: During the struggle for independence here in Kenya the freedom fighters relied on people from all walks of life save for the colonial chieftains who had been brainwashed into thinking like the wealthy colonialist, who ruled through financial means and resources, as opposed to the ideologies. In Mombasa, this ideology of people s power has been watered down by few wealthy people to subdue the true consciousness of the people. 2016: Political godfatherism has worsened, becoming the ultimate determinant, which I m seriously opposed to. Unlike other societies where people look at education, personality and quality of leadership of a person, society now looks at how rich one is so that the rich get elected to leadership positions. 2016: You can be present and you are not be seen. You can be absent and your impact is felt all over. So those who want to contest against me for the party ticket, I tell them welcome. 