FKF tribunal orders club to pay Minnaert Sh2.4m compensationFootball Kenya Federation (FKF) arbitration tribunal has ordered AFC Leopards to pay former coach Ivan Minnaert Sh2.4 million for unfairly terminating his contract.The amount was calculated as the remaining six months of his contract.The coach alleged there was breach of contract and wrongful termination by the club and took the club to the tribunal.Leopards apparently fired him for what they termed as undesirable results in August. The Belgian tactician on his part said the results were not of his own making.In a 29 page document, the tribunal chaired by Bernard Murunga stated the coach was unfairly dismissed by the club on the evidence presented. With our finding that the coach was unfairly terminated, our decision turns now to the compensation that is sufficient in the circumstances. We are guided by the provisions of the Fifa Regulations on Status and Transfer of Players (RSTP) which offers the appropriate means to protect contractual stability, taking into account the legal principle of pacta suntservanda, which means that agreements must be respected by the parties in good faith. Article 3 (b) in particular provides:Each association shall include in its regulations appropriate means to protect contractual stability, paying due respect to mandatory national law and collective bargaining agreements. In particular,the following principles must be considered: Article 13: the principle that contracts must be respected; Article 14: the principle that contracts may be terminated by either party without consequences where there is just cause; Article 15: the principle that contracts may be terminated by professionals with sporting just cause. Article 16: the principle that contracts cannot be terminated during the course of the season. Article 17 paragraphs 1 and 2: the principle that in the event of termination of contract without just cause, compensation shall be payable and that such compensation may be stipulated in the contract. Article 17 paragraphs 3-5: the principle that in the event of termination of contract without just cause, sporting sanctions shall be imposed on the party in breach. The coach had on 22nd September 2016 filed a claim before the Arbitration Tribunal through his lawyers Guandaru Thuita &amp; Company Advocates.