Ukambani elected leaders who ditched Wiper for the Jubilee Party have scoffed at the party over plans to subject them to disciplinary proceedings.Wiper named a five-member committee to question the seven leaders. The committee comprises lawyer Haroun Ndubi (chairman), Lilian Omondi, Mutheu Muna, Abubakar Yusuf and Jacob Mutula.The leaders to be investigated are Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua, Kilome MP Regina Ndambuki, Mwingi Central MP Joe Mutambu and his Mwingi North counterpart John Munuve. Others are Mbooni MP Kisoi Munyao, Kaiti s Richard Makenga and nominated MP Robert Mutemi.MCAs who are perceived to have shifted their allegiance to other parties will also be summoned.They are required to explain why they should not be expelled from the party and their posts declared vacant.The National Executive Council met on Wednesday and resolved to form the committee to investigate the conduct of members who have declared allegiance to other political parties.They will be given an opportunity to defend themselves.But the defiant leaders slammed the party. Mutambu said he is not a Wiper party member and I have no business with their foolishness .Munuve said he is ready for a by-election if the Mwingi North seat is declared vacant. Residents of Mwingi North have for the last 30 years been electing a king who they could not talk to because he had even moved to Machakos county. But today they have a leader who they can access. They call me and we discuss issues affecting them, he told the Star on the phone. The seat I hold does not belong to Wiper, but the people of Mwingi North. I will seek reelection on the Jubilee Party ticket and people will elect a leader they can see and talk to. The Wiper party is behaving like a monkey. They are only aping what ODM did. Ndambuki said the party ejected her from a retreat at the Maanzoni Lodge, Machakos, where she and Mutemi were nearly lynched by goons on August 30 last year. I have recorded videos and audios of everything said at the meeting. I am ready to defend myself in court or anywhere they will take me because it is they who called me a Jubilee mole and told me never to attend any of their meetings, she said. People want development and are not interested in cheap party politics of who swears allegiance to which party. Munyao said he has quit the party and is waiting for the letters to know what to do. I am not a watermelon and I make solid decisions. I had consulted widely before making the decision to move to the Jubilee Party and I have the support of my people, he said.