Kenya suffered their sixth loss in the Uganda Quadrangular series after going down by 144 runs to hosts Uganda XI.Following the defeat the sixth in as many matches Kenya ended the four-team event at the bottom of the log with no point. Zimbabwe s Takashinga won the series after beating Uganda s second side, Uganda XI by 5 wickets at Kyambogo University grounds.Chasing a challenging total of 226 to at least end the tour on a winning note, the Kenyan side put up a pathetic show and were bowled out for 85 in 29.4 overs at Lugogo Oval ground.Kenya lost four wickets for 21 runs in the first eight overs to spark another poor batting show for Jimmy Kamande s side.The inning was only lifted by Abraham Vadada, who top-scored with 42 runs. Aman Gandhi was the first to be dismissed when he was caught off in the third over before Aveet Desai and Joseph Owino followed in the fifth and sixth overs respectively with the board on 16. Kavi Dosaja didn t trouble the scores as much as he was only able to face five balls in his 14-ball stint.Skipper Emmanuel Bundi was more wasteful with the bat, scoring six off 39 balls in his fifth wicket stand with Vadada. And at 48 for 5 in 20 overs, it was always going to be an uphill task from there on, and Kenya lost Rahul Seedhar and Pushpak Kerai in quick succession for two and three respectively. Vadada then fell to Nsubuga in the 26th over after hitting two sixes and four boundaries in his 53-ball stint on the crease with the board on 75. Peterson Kamau could only manage 11 runs before Kenya s inning folded.Earlier, Uganda XI s batting fired in unison as they posted a competitive 225 in 48.3 overs. Arthur Kyobe led the way with a knock of 84 while Roger Mukasa and Shazad Kamal provided some impetus in the middle with 34 and 37 runs. Nsubuga then added on 25 down the order before the tail-enders were all dismissed for a duck.Bundi was outstanding with the ball, claiming three for 25 from 9.3 overs with Kerai once again proving a good prospect with the ball when he finished with three for 56 from 10 overs. Adarsh Sawjani picked two for 42 from 10 overs.Coming into the match, Takashinga were equal on points with Steve Tikolo-led Uganda XI and they needed to beat their opponents by a good margin to be crowned winners.