Police in Murang&rsquo;a have arrested the wife of Kiru Boys Secondary School principal Solomon Mwangi after his mutilated body was found in a coffee estate.He went missing on November 6.Mwangi&rsquo;s body was found by a watchman on Sunday at Karuntuma Coffee Estate in Witeithie, Kiambu county. He had been tortured. Murang&rsquo;a county commissioner John Elungata said his wife, Jane Muthoni was arrested on Sunday, as the prime suspect in the gruesome killing. Muthoni, who is a principal at Ichachiri Boys High School in Kiambu, is held at Murang&rsquo;a police station.The commissioner said the body had been badly mutilated. The hands were tied behind the back, the face was bruised and some teeth were missing.&ldquo;By the look of it, the principal had been strangled and had been tortured before he was killed,&rdquo; Elungata said.Police took the body to City Mortuary in Nairobi. &ldquo;We positively identify the body as the missing principal even though we were hoping to find him alive,&rdquo; Elungata said.He said on Sunday November 6, Muthoni had driven Mwangi from their home near Ichachiri Secondary School to Witeithie shopping centre.Elungata said that on the previous day the wife had picked Mwangi from Kiru Boys High School in Mathioya using a hired car. &ldquo;We have confiscated the car, because we suspect it may have been used by the suspect and others to carry out the heinous crime,&rdquo; he said.Elungata said police suspect Muthoni was used by unknown people to take Mwangi to Witeithie.He said it is suspicious Muthoni who lives at Gatundu attempted to record a statement at Kasarani police station when her husband was missing with the full knowledge that a case had already been opened in Murang&rsquo;a. It was said Muthoni was romantically linked with a CID officer attached to Kasarani police station. A principal said Muthoni suspected her husband was having an affair with a woman operating an M-Pesa shop at Kiriaini shopping centre near his school.&ldquo;People suspected to have participated in the murder, who have been repeatedly been mentioned during investigations, including the officer, are being investigated,&rdquo; Elungata said.Police are investigating claims Mwangi&rsquo;s daughter was violently robbed of her phone by a man a few days after Mwangi went missing. It is alleged she was in contact with a teacher at her father&rsquo;s school and the phone may contain vital information.Police appealed to the public for information about other persons involved in the case.