The communications Authority plans to draw Sh800 million from the Universal Service Fund to connect all public schools in the country with high speed internet. This is the first time that the CA will be spending from the kitty that was set up in 2009 to pool funds inorder to facilitate universal access to voice and broadband communications services in the country. USF is funded by licensed operators, who begun contributing 0.5 per cent of their annual gross revenues in 2014. The kitty has collected Sh4.7 billion so far. A Canadian firm, Intelecon Research and Consultancy that was contracted by the CA to conduct an ICT Access Gap study recommended learning institutions as the ideal hubs for enhancing broadband access.CA said it will support the project for four years, with 100 per cent funding in the first year to connect 896 schools that have been identified. The first beneficiaries will be 54 public secondary schools in Bungoma County.It will then cut funding to 75 per cent in the second year with the Ministry of Education financing 25 per cent. In the third year, the CA and the ministry will split the costs equally. However, CA will only provide a quarter of the funding in the fourth year, with the ministry shouldering the balance. We have entered a Memorandum of Understanding with the Ministry of Education to identify the schools. So far we have identified 896 secondary schools, director general Francis Wangusi said in a statement.He said the schools were selected based on their ICT readiness adding that preference was given to institutions that have computer labs and offer computer studies as an examinable subject in the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education. We believe this is going to be a foundation through which we will grow our capacity and also enable our young children to start developing their critical skills in ICTs, he said. Findings from the ICT Access Gap study show that 5,655 sub-locations across the country have 100 per cent coverage, 418 sub-locations have less than 50 per cent coverage while 166 sub-locations have no coverage at all. That means about 94.4 per cent of the population is covered by ICT services while 5.6 per cent remains unserved. According to the CA, access to ICTs will reduce transaction costs, increase efficiency through digitization of government services and improve living standards.