Kenya Sevens forward Oscar Ouma will miss the Safland Sevens tournament this weekend in Namibia.The Nakuru RFC flanker contracted illness on the day of departure to Namibia and will stay out of the pre-season tournament. Team manager Eric Ogweno said all 15 players, who travelled will be given a chance to play at the two day tournament, which kickoffs tomorrow.The tournament rules allow us to declare a team of 12 per game hence the decision to give everyone, who travelled an opportunity to play. Innocent Simiyu s charges will start their fixtures against Namibia, South Africa All Stars and Germany on Day One before playing South Africa in their final pool match on Sunday morning ahead of the knockout phase.The top four teams at the close of play in their respective sections will advance to the cup quarter-finals on Sunday with the bottom-placed teams in each pool contesting for the shield.Elsewhere, Kenya Rugby Union are seeking sponsorship for the Kenya Lionesses from national carrier, Kenya Airways. The airline severed links with the Kenya Sevens men s team on Tuesday after a six-year relationship. KRU director of commerce, Ian Mugambi, said they were awaiting feedback from the airline on the matter. We wrote to them a while back on the possibility of them taking up sponsorship for the women s side, he added.The airline had said in their statement earlier in the week that they may continue supporting the sport through select initiatives. We may get more invitations to play in other tournaments and that s the reason why we are trying to look for sponsorship. With more invitations, we will definitely need more resources for the team, added Mugambi. The team is currently preparing for the Dubai Sevens next month. In an interview, head coach Kevin Wambua said they have made progress after a good display at the Africa Sevens final, where they lost to South Africa 22-17 in a an epic final two months ago. I must say the girls have made tremendous improvement and I expect them to be competitive in Dubai, added Wambua.Elsewhere, Quins have set their sights on winning the Kenya Cup title after receiving sponsorship boost from betting firm, SportPesa. The Ngong road outfit reached the semifinals last season but lost to eventual winners Kabras 21-15. The deal is believed to be in the range of Sh50 million for the first year with an expected escalation of a percentage said to be in the range of 20% in subsequent years for the first five-year term. The deal will be wholesome and will cater for kit, players welfare, women rugby and the senior side of 40 players will be contracted. They will also provide a bus for the team. Through the partnership, the club has also adopted nationwide sides Kitale RFC and Dagoretti Bulldogs as their development teams.Squad: Andrew Amonde (captain), William Ambaka (Quins), Frank Wanyama (Quins), Nelson Oyoo (Nakuru), Leonard Mugaisi (Homeboyz), Daniel Sikuta (Kabras), Billy Odhiambo (Mwamba), Eden Agero (Quins), Bush Mwale (Homeboyz), Martin Owila (KCB), Augustine Lugonzo (Homeboyz), Brian Tanga (Kabras), Aluda Beda (Kabras), Darwin Mukidza (KCB) and Derek Mayar (Impala). Management: Innocent Simiyu (head coach), Ian Gibbons (S&amp;C coach), Lameck Bogonko (physio), Erick Ogweno (team manager), Labib Levy (High Performance analyst).