The 2016 election was one of the most dramatic in recent memory -- and it was also one of the most quotable. From Donald Trump's damning "Access Hollywood" tape to Hillary Clinton's infamous "deplorables" comment, we look back at just a few of the most memorable quotes from the election. "We are horrible. Why do we do this?" Anonymous TV producer, April 14, 2015, to Slate, after a horde of journalists scurried across a field to try to capture the arrival of Hillary Clinton at her first campaign event. "People should not underestimate me." Bernie Sanders, announcing his presidential run on April 30, 2015. The New York Times ran the story on page 21. "They're sending people that have lots of problems, and they're bringing those problems with us. They're bringing drugs. They're bringing crime. They're rapists." Donald Trump, on Mexico, at a June 16, 2015, speech announcing his candidacy. "Only Rosie O'Donnell." Trump, at the first GOP debate, on August 7, 2015, when asked why he called some women "fat pigs," "dogs," and "slobs." "You could see there was blood coming out of her eyes. Blood coming out of her wherever." Trump, about Megyn Kelly, in an interview with CNN's Don Lemon the night after first GOP debate. "The American people are sick and tired of hearing about your damn emails." Sanders, to Hillary Clinton, at the first Democratic debate on October 13, 2015. "Look at all the cameras. This is like the Academy Awards." Trump, at an event for veterans on Jan. 28, that he staged to counter the Fox News debate, which he boycotted. "It may not be good for America, but it's damn good for CBS." Leslie Moonves, on Trump's ability to generate ratings, at a Feb. 29 investor conference. "I'm building a wall. It's an inherent conflict of interest." Trump, to the Wall Street Journal on June 3, referring to Judge Gonzalo Curiel, who is presiding over a lawsuit against Trump University and is of Mexican heritage. "I alone can fix it." Trump, in his July 21 acceptance speech at the GOP convention, on how he will reform the system."Our motto is: When they go low, we go high." First lady Michelle Obama, at the Democratic National Convention, on July 25. "You know, to just be grossly generalistic, you could put half of Trump's supporters into what I call the basket of deplorables. Right?" Clinton, speaking at a New York fundraiser September 9, about racism, sexism, and xenophobia among some Trump supporters."You can do anything. ... Grab them by the pussy. You can do anything." Trump, to Billy Bush, in a 2005 recording in which he boasts about his treatment of women. The Washington Post obtained the recording and posted it on October 7.