There was a showdown between anti-riot police officers and journalists during an anti-corruption protest by hundreds in the Nairobi CBD on Thursday.The group turned up at Freedom Corner to demonstrate for action by President Uhuru Kenyatta, in the wake of a probe into the alleged theft of Sh5 billion at the Health ministry.The officers under&nbsp;the command of Kilimani OCS Ronald Ngau, attacked journalists who filmed them as they dispersed the demonstrators. They beat the people with batons and fired volleys of tear gas to disperse them from the location at Uhuru Park. Nation Media Group Photographer Herbil Onyango argues with Kilimani OCS Ronald Ngau after he ordered police to teargas journalists during an anti-corruption demonstration at Freedom Corner in Uhuru Park, Nairobi, in the wake of the Sh5.3 billion Health ministry scandal, November 3, 2016. /PATRICK VIDIJA The group&#39;s intention was to carry out a peaceful protest that would end with the presentation of a&nbsp;petition to President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House. West TV journalist Dennis Omondi was rounded by the officer accompanied by his juniors, who tried to grab his camera but pulled back when other journalists raised the alarm. A member of the Kenya Union of Journalist was hit by a cartridge from a bullet fired at the demonstrators. Journalists ganged up against Ngau and demanded to know why he allowed the use of tear gas and water sprays on them. But he was&nbsp;whisked away in a police car. Journalists teargassed during the protest at Freedom Corner on Thursday Photo/PATRICK VIDIJA As the journalist tried to come to terms with the harassment, a gang of about 30 young men confronted them and tried to steal their valuables while uniformed GSU officers stood by cheering. When the journalists realised a colleague&#39;s camera was broken, they confronted the goons before Administration Police intervened and arrested two of them. The group led by activist Boniface Mwangi and Kenya Human Rights Commission deputy director Davis Malombe demanded the immediate sacking of government and public officers adversely mentioned in corruption scandals. They further demanded that Uhuru initiate the legal process of freezing the accounts of all those implicated in grand corruption scandals.&quot;We want the President to immediately stop and recover salaries paid illegally to officers who have been suspended or removed from public service on graft allegations,&quot; said Malombe.Protesters during an anti-corruption demonstration at Freedom Corner in Uhuru Park, Nairobi, in the wake of the Sh5.3 billion Health ministry scandal, November 3, 2016. /REUTERSMwangi said Uhuru should fully implement Auditor General Edward Ouko&#39;s recommendations following corruption investigations and recover all&nbsp;stolen public funds and property. The government of Uhuru, who is expected to seek a second term in office in next year&#39;s election, made a campaign pledge to clamp down on corruption. Opponents say he has been slow to act and failed to stop high-level graft. &quot;We supported the government before, but they let us down. Children are dying in hospitals because of corruption,&quot; said Beatrice Shiko, a mother of two, who wore a red T-shirt with the slogan &#39;Act on corruption or resign&#39;. Read: Kenyan police beat anti-corruption protesters, fire tear gas [VIDEO] Frustrated Uhuru scolds state officials on rampant corruption