Celebrity make-up artist Gary Cockerill has more than 25 years experience and a long list of clients, including Eva Longoria and Jo Wood.In his new book, Simply Glamorous, Gary uses his self-taught make-up skills to transform a host of women. I wanted to show that make-up can be fun and also powerful, says Gary. Here, he reveals some of his top tips for women of any age on how to be confident with make-up and experiment to get the best look.SKIN I don t believe less is more when it comes to choosing make-up as you age, says Gary. Our skin becomes sallow, so it s important to add warmth and colour to your features. Contouring works well because it acts like a mini facelift, enhancing the brows, chin and jaw, and accentuating the cheekbones to give definition. Stick to a cream or liquid foundation and use two different shades. Go for one lighter than your natural skin tone and one that s two shades darker. Apply the darker colour where you want to create depth under the jaw and chin, down the neck, the sides of the nose and in the hollows of the cheeks. Then use the lighter shade on the areas you want to highlight, where light would naturally hit the face under the eyes, above the cheekbones, below the brow bone and on the forehead. Use a blending brush and setting powder to finish.EYES Steer away from frosted or shimmery shades around the eyes as you get older, says Gary. These textures draw attention to wrinkles. The aim is to lift the eye area. Full-strip lashes can often look too dramatic, but individual lashes can be used to fill in any gaps and give a youthful look. LIPS I use a tiny amount of foundation to prime lips before applying colour, says Gary. If you use dark lipstick, foundation helps it to stay in place. Next, line the lips twice with a pencil in a shade deeper than your lipstick. Next, the lipstick. BY AGE40s: This is the time to address your skincare, says Gary. Invest in a good primer and ensure skin is hydrated to keep fine lines and wrinkles at bay. 50s: Brows become important at this age. If you are drawing them on, brunettes should go a shade darker than your hair colour, and blondes and redheads should go a shade lighter. 60s: This is the age when your foundation needs to change, advises Gary. A soft cream or liquid foundation is more flattering than powder. It is also important to choose a warm shade to enhance the skin. 70s: Don t be afraid to use lip colour. Lips begin to lose definition as we age, but you can reshape them with lip liner. Stick to a lipstick or crayon that s creamy and won t drag the skin. 80s: Eyes change dramatically as we age, but it is still important to emphasise them, says Gary. I often use a blusher or bronzer on the eye area, because warm colours are flattering. 