When US First Lady Michelle Obama stood up to speak at the Democratic National Convention in July, no one would have thought she would give Americans the anchor to the presidential campaigns. How do we explain that when someone is cruel or acts like a bully, you don t stoop to their level. No, our motto is, when they go low, we go high, she said.This has now become one of the defining statements of a dirty and slanderous US campaign that has seen Republican candidate Donald Trump lose support because of taking the low road. As Kenyans prepare for the 2017 elections, there are two ways to campaign for the presidency taking the high road or the low road.The high road should show how one can do better than the serving President by giving clear examples of one s success, especially if they have previously served in the government.The low road is to oppose everything the President and his government does. To go to extremes and criticise projects that one knows took years of negotiations with the World Bank or other lending and donor institutions to start. And these are projects that will benefit the country.Even after losing three presidential elections, ODM leader Raila Odinga still prefers to take the low road. He has, in the past three years or so, not only opposed everything the government has done but also made wild corruption allegations against the state. For instance, his allegations about the Eurobond were mixed up and he ended up looking like he does not know what he was talking about. It started with the allegation that the money never got to Kenya. He then claimed that half of the Sh250 billion was stolen. This stolen figure then went down to Sh66 billion, only to later rise to Sh125 billion.This is the same case with the claims he has raised on various water projects in the country. He started with Murang a s Northern Collector Tunnel. His claims have since been dismissed by experts and local leaders.This is similar the claims he made about the Mau Forest last week and where, in both instances, he has tried to insinuate the President s family was the greatest beneficiary.There are numerous projects, including the standard gauge railway, that Raila opposed without looking at when and how they came to be. He forgets that most of the projects being implemented by the Jubilee government are part of the country s development blueprint Vision 2030.All these projects mean well for Kenya and even if, which seems will never happen, he becomes President, he will be guided by the same document.So when he keeps opposing the government without evidence and through unjustified claims, Raila stoops too low. That s why many Kenyans don t trust him.We must agree that Jubilee inherited a nation that faced many problems such as unemployment, poverty, inequality and a poor healthcare system, among other shortcomings. And the same way Rome was not built in a day, solutions to these problems will not come in a month or a year.Kenyans trust the President and Deputy President William Ruto to steer this country to prosperity. They will not be distracted by falsehoods. It is, therefore, unfortunate that Raila and other opposition leaders are out to treat Kenyans to empty political rhetoric and mudslinging.We cannot oppose things for the sake of it. We must be part of the solutions to help our country develop and prosper. Otherwise, we will stick with the Jubilee administration because we have seen and experienced what it can do. The writer is a political and communications consultant. Twitter @MachelWaikenda