Guys, do you remember the days of "Late Date"? How about "Sundowner"? Timeless stuff, right?Yes ...back in the day when soul ruled the airwaves on National Radio and you'd just lay back and snuggle with your radio and perhaps drift into thoughts of love and good times.Now, the worst part was when the show had to end, especially for "Late Date" and then the station would shut down, done for the day. Grrrrr! Now what should soothe and lull you off to sleep? I must say that back then, "serikali" didn't think about your emotions that muuuch... huh!So, with minutes to the start of Sundowner, at about 6PM, you'd find yourself waiting with bated breath for our celebrity radio presenters of the day to pick and read your letter that you had penned with a million requests for a song by Kool &amp; The Gang.Once those baritone-voiced presenters made you feel too lucky by picking your request, that is the day you will lose sleep as you celebrate.That was back in the day. When a Cassette was the flash disk of today, carrying our most cherished music. When all our sources of information were radio and newspaper. That's how we learnt all we could about America, the musicians from out there, and what a concept like Ladies Night means. I didn't know it was a term coined from a song by a band of hugely talented, bell-bottom wearing, shirts open afro-hair toned singers, Kool And The Gang.You want a sneak peek into where king of pop got some of those back breaking moves? The moonwalk dance? I hope they can pull those moves when they land to perform here in Nairobi on November 13th 2016.Yes, you heard me right! Kool And The Gang will be here, in Nairobi Kenya. KICC will host these living legends as they bring your best hits from decades back.You can swear their music could be around for much longer, going by the reception that their music still receives all over the world. So, my one question to you: What's your plan?Let's re-live the "Good Times" with Kool And The Gang and "Cherish The Love" because it's "Fresh"