KENYANS are paying dearly for a chemical and fertilisers company that was never constructed. Corridors has established that the National Treasury, on the watch of CS Henry Rotich(pictured), has paid a staggering Sh349,869,076.20 for Ken-Ren Chemical and Fertilisers Company Limited in the last financial year alone. The deal is almost similar to the payment of the Anglo Leasing scam firms. Some civil society activists have been heard saying the amount involved can sustain starving communities in the North Rift and Northeastern regions for months on end. The firm was to build a factory in the 1970s at Changamwe, Mombasa, to manufacture fertiliser for domestic consumption. So, who collects these payments three decades later and laughs all the way to the bank? Aren t the EACC, DCI and DPP intrigued? DID a senior Kenyan government official threaten a prominent civil society activist at the just-concluded Assembly of States Parties at The Hague? Well, it s said that a senior adviser in the Presidency threatened the activist during a panel discussion, to the shock of participants. The activist was among those who challenged President Uhuru Kenyatta s election at the Supreme Court. She was also an ardent supporter of the ICC process. A building a long Ronald Ngala Street in the heart of Nairobi is a time bomb. In fact, Nairobians are left wondering whether City Hall inspectorate officers have not seen the building, or have they had their palms greased so thoroughly they have become some of those about whom it is said there are none so blind as those who will not see ? The building is still under construction, but its ground floor has already been occupied. What s more, It s not sealed off from the public. In fact, building materials, including metals, hang dangerously from the floors above as construction goes on unabated. Some passersby shudder as they pass the building site, fearful for their lives. What is happening? A Woman Rep from Nyanza who is eyeing a parliamentary seat has shifted her base from the city, including her husband , to the constituency she wants to run for. Reason? She wants to maintain a grassroots presence and connection with voters. However, constituents are quietly asking themselves where the lawmaker left her former lover. Curious locals have been thronging the palatial home of the Rep in the rural area, keen to catch a glimpse of the new man, said to be from another constituency within the same county. Shockingly, the incumbent MP, a vocal anti-graft crusader, has been compiling a dossier on why the woman left her former husband, the father of their two daughters, for the ex-military man likely to spoil her chances on Election Day.