Cup champions survive early loss by a whiskerDefending Kenya Cup champions Kabras Sugar survived Nairobi University s Mean Machine scare to emerge 14-13 winners during their first Kenya Cup Conference A match at the Kakamega Showground.For a second, the Sugarmen were trailing Mean Machine 7-10 as the team went into the breather. Treasure Odundo grabbed an early opener for the students before Rene Inyanga made the conversion to give Mean Machine a 7-0 lead. Kabras pulled back a converted try through Steve Ochieng with new signing Andrew Gathua grabbing the extras to put things even at 7-7. Inyanga grabbed three more points for the students to take the lead once again as the first half came to a close.Inyanga opened the second half with another successful penalty to extend Mean Machine s lead to 13-7 before Peter Nakarawa s converted try by Gathua gave Kabras the narrow 14-13 win. The win was so narrow and I think it serves as a wake-up call for us to go back to the drawing board. We gave Mean Machine the confidence they needed by committing mistakes, which they (Machine) were quick to take advantage of, said Kabras Sugar Assistant Coach. We underrated them right from kick off basing on how we have played them before, and I think that was what dealt us a major blow. That match was the easiest in the Conference and the narrow win means that we will have to work harder come next match given that it will be another Western Derby, he added.In the other matches, 2015 champions KCB thrashed Western Bulls 31-0 at the Bull Ring in Kakamega. The Bankers took control of the game leading 19-0 at first half. Tries by Darwin Mukidza, Nick Ongeri, Calvin Sule, Rocky Aguko and three conversions from Mukidza ensured that the bankers won the match comfortably.At the RFUEA grounds Kenya Harlequin whipped Kenyatta University s Blak Blad 47-8. Tries by Hosea Odhiambo, David Ahawo (two tries), Dennis Mugambi, Isaac Adimu, Dennis Muhanji, Pius Shiundu (two tries) and a penalty and two conversions by Shiundu put Quins ahead as Levy Amunga scored Blak Blad s consolation try and penalty of the game. This came barely a day after Harlequin entered into a sponsorship deal with betting firm SportPesa.Action at Impala grounds was high with Homeboyz running rout on Strathmore Leos and Impala Saracens gunning down Nondescript Rangers. Against Strathmore, Homeboyz got their massive 48-17 win courtesy of tries from Collins Shikoli, Nelson Sangura, Elisha Okello, Collins Musera, Kevin Masai and Philip Ikambili and five conversions and a penalty by Edwin Wafula and Masai. Strathmore responded with tries from Captain Brian Nyikuli, Brian Munene, Ginton Adongo and a conversion from Patrick Muiruri.Against Nondies, Impala won 37-22 in the match that also doubled up as Samson Odhiambo Memorial Cup. Impala fired tries through Eric Kerre, Joel Omer, Mark Kwemoi, George OKowa and Quinto Ongo, and managed two penalties and three conversions from Ongo to seal their lead while Nondies scored through Ced Odera, Simon Ngugi Duncan Ekasi and grabbed a penalty and two conversions by Fielden Sinei but could not match their opponents.In the last league match of the day, 2013 and 2014 back to back champions Nakuru beat Mwamba 26-11 at Nakuru Athletics Club. Mwamba took an early lead through Lavin Asego s two penalties before Geoffrey Ominde levelled things up with two successful penalties. Nakuru then secured two unconverted tries through Gramwel Bunyasi and Edwin Okemwa, a penalty try and a penalty courtesy of Ominde. Collins Injera scored Mwamba s only try of the game. The next round will be held in November 12 pitting six other matches.