WHY is the EACC not taking action on allegations of fraud at City Hall s parking section, where staff forge documents to claim allowances? A mole says some staff and the county Integrity office wrote to the EACC, elaborating where and how other staff members are stealing money, but one official named was called and came back saying he had sorted out the anti-graft sleuths. The official, linked to the loss of Sh53 million, told his friends and colleagues he had taken care of the EACC officials in such a way they had no option but to clear him of the complaint. So, what is the status of the probe? Michael Mubea and Halakhe Waqo, say something! **** STILL on City Hall, a senior official was arrested with a gun that was said to be illegal and unregistered and walked back to his place of work, saying he had the money to resolve the matter.. He was taken to the Central Police Station where his gun was confiscated pending investigations, but he was let free and there the matter rested. What happened at Central after the confiscation no one knows, amid claims there are plans to validate the weapon. **** WORD has it that a lucrative contract to excavate a water pan in a Northeastern county has already been earmarked to be given to two leading firms. Those in the know say that the businessmen behind the two companies have already influenced several senior officers in the county in order to win the tender. It is said that the companies and the businessmen have won several other tenders and a group of whistleblower youths have already written to the EACC to intervene and ensure that due process is followed in the award of the tender. **** AS the 2017 election approaches, MPs are trying as much as possible to be good to their respective constituents. Corridors has been told of a first-time MP from the Nyanza region who at the beginning of the 11th Parliament in 2013 wouldn t want to see or hear anything from his constituents hanging around Parliament Buildings for days on end for handouts. The MP is now said to be among the top legislators with the highest number of guests streaming into the Parliament restaurant, a move said to be his strategy to endear himself to the electorate, who have vowed to teach him a lesson on August 8, 2017. **** Detectives from the DCI are said to be tailing a Kericho politician who is eyeing a parliamentary seat. Reason? The aspirant is said to be among suspected drug dealers and has been using the proceeds to finance his campaigns.