She appears simply as number NCOD14179 inside the United Nation s file of asylum seekers in Nairobi.But Delphine Inkumburwa has taken 20 years through five different countries to reach Kenya and join that list.It was a journey defined by uncertainty at every stage, and in which she lost all her family members, husband and two children.While such journeys are often fraught with danger and exploitation, there are also moments of exceptional kindness.Delphine shared her story because she does not understand why many Kenyans speak ill of their own country the most peaceful place she knows.She is among the thousands of people whose lives were so upended by desperation and violence in their own countries that they fled to safety in Kenya.She was born in 1985 in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo, then a densely populated region that is also fertile for farming.As the third born child in a family of five, Delphine had a pleasant upbringing.The children would play all over the forested hills, catching butterflies and dreaming about a happy and successful future.RWANDAN GENOCIDEIn 1994 when she was nine years old, there was genocide in Rwanda and more than two million Hutus sought refuge in eastern Congo.Two years later, a coalition comprised of the Ugandan and Rwandan armies, along with Congolese opposition leader Laurent D sir Kabila, led a rebellion against dictator Mobutu Sese Seko. Kabila s militia attacked our family. They claimed we were Tutsi s and we should go back to Rwanda, she says.The armed groups marauded the villages, terrorising civilians and destroying the peaceful lives villagers had known.They hacked to death all domestic animals. They also flogged and killed Delphine s parents. Her three siblings were then hacked to death. Only myself and my younger brother Ngonzage remained, she says. Delphine was 11 years old, and her life as an asylum seeker began.The two joined long caravans of villagers fleeing the country. They trudged through the forests, most of the time with no food. Children would cry until they fainted but mothers had nothing to give them. Those of us who made it, ended up at Mutende Refugee Camp in Rwanda. We were later moved to another camp, and then to Burundi, she says.MASSACRE AT GATUMBAHere, a wealthy businesswoman called Mama Sauda offered to adopt Delphine and her brother and take them to school.They lived with her for nine months, but she only turned them into servants at her house.Delphine says neighbours alerted the police, who rescued the children and took them to the ill-fated Gatumba Refugee camp in Bujumbura.The village of Gatumba lies on the western side of Burundi, near the border with the Democratic Republic of the Congo.On the night of August 13, 2004, an armed militia attacked the camp and mercilessly slaughtered 166 innocent refugees from the DR Congo.These were almost exclusively members of the Banyamulenge tribe, who had been forced from their homes in the southern Kivu region of the DRC.The most heart-wrenching stories were those of the little children. Too scared to hide and too small to run away, they were shot, macheted or burned to death simply because they were Tutsi. Young Ngonzage was one of those killed.The refugee camp had supposedly been under United Nations protection, but neither they nor the Burundian army did anything to stop the slaughter.Many survivors are still bewildered and angry. Despite strong calls at the time by the African Union and UN Security Council for justice without delay , the killers have never been prosecuted.A promise by the Burundian government to refer Gatumba to the International Criminal Court was never fulfilled.More than 525 Gatumba survivors have since been relocated to North America.Delphine, 19, was unlucky.She was married by another refugee called Richard Rukomera and they decided to return to Eastern DRC.They found some semblance of peace. Their lives began to pick up and by 2008, they had two healthy children two boys.Unknown to them, another anti-government insurrection by rebel leader Laurent Nkunda was simmering.Delphine says their home was attacked by soldiers who gave them an ultimatum to reveal where Nkunda was hiding. They burnt our house and looted our cattle. They then killed my three-year-old child, he says.Delphine, Richard and their remaining son escaped to Uganda, where she gave birth to another son.They returned to DR Congo in 2010 but stumbled into a rebellion led by Bosco Ntaganda, the leader of a splinter faction of Nkunda s army. The soldiers asked us where the snakes (Tutsi s) were? We said we don t know. They beat up my husband and killed my elder son, she says.Ntaganda is now facing trial at the ICC. Seeing Bosco Ntaganda in the dock sends a powerful message to others implicated in grave abuses in Congo that one day, they too may be brought to justice, says Geraldine Mattioli-Zeltner, international justice advocacy director at Human Rights Watch. My husband hated my country from that moment. He swore never to live there, Delphine says.LONG TREK TO SOUTH AFRICAThe couple and their remaining son began a long trek to South Africa in 2013.They have lived in Johannesburg since then and Richard worked as a watchman. Delphine was also blessed with another son.But the violence against migrants in South Africa early last year drowned the last hope she had in life.Richard, her husband, was slashed to death. The wife of my husband s employer rescued me and my children and took me to Malawi. She then gave us bus fare and urged us to proceed. She ended up sickly in Tanzania in April last year.Delphine thanks Tanzanian police for the kindness they showed her and the children. They took her to hospital. They also paid her bus fare so she could travel to Kenya, which is considered more friendly to asylum seekers.She was registered with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees last year and was taken to the Daadab refugee camp.Delphine says Daadab is not a bed of roses. There are lots of tribal fights between the majority Somali and refugees of other ethnicities.She was raped twice and police did not help her. Instead, she was transferred to Ifo 1, a camp within Dadaab.She accuses one Abdi of department of the refugees affairs of cover-up.Delphine returned to Nairobi and has slept outside the last one month. She is now waiting for the UNHCR to process her papers and determine where she should go.A Catholic church group recently rented a house for her, for November, after which she should sort out her life.Now 31, Delphine looks much older than her age. She also speaks loudly and often turns emotional and cries.As she did in all the five countries she lived, she will try to build a life in Kenya.The eldest son (born in Uganda in 2010 ) is now six years old, while the last born is three (born in South Africa in 2013 ).Her most prized possession is a stack of tattered letters, certificates and documents she has collected over the last 20 years, which corroborate her story.She also owns a cracked phone held together by old rubber bands.Whenever her phone rings, it is usually another refugee asking what to do, now that she is considered experienced . But she also hopes the phone will one day bring good news for her.