Elnathan John s debut book Born on a Tuesday (2015) is a coming of age novel of a young Muslim man living in a splintered community in modern-day, northern Nigeria. In light of the ongoing menace of Boko Haram, this book gives an uncommon insider view ordinary communities fractured by religious extremism.The story is told from the perspective of the protagonist Ahmad, nicknamed Dantala because he was born on Tuesday. Dantala is an almajiri, a child of poor family sent away by his family at a young age to a Quranic school in the town of Bayan Layi. We meet Dantala as a teenager, now a member of a street gang that lives under a tree, smokes marijuana and terrorises the neighbourhood. When the gang botches a job to destroy a political opponent s office during the election season, Dantala is forced to abandon his friends and flee town. He briefly returns home to find the village has been devastated by natural disasters, his brothers have joined fundamentalist sect and his mother has succumbed to the grief of losing two children.So Dantala moves to a town in the north-western Sokoto State where he rediscovers his faith and joins a mosque led by Sheikh Jamal, a level-headed imam who is a proponent of Salafism, a non-violent but conservative form of Islam. Here he learns to read and write English, and keeps a journal of his enquiring thoughts written as expounded definitions of new words that he is learning. Dantala may have left behind the savagery of the streets but in religious life he encounters a new sort of brutality brought about by corruption, political manoeuvrings, poverty and vastly opposing interpretations of the Islamic faith. Inexperienced in matters of love, Dantala bumbles through sexual inquisitiveness and awkward conversations with Aisha, daughter of the sheikh who likes to wear green dresses. His closest friend, Jibril, is the younger brother of an increasingly radical Muslim cleric that eventually breaks away from the sheikh to form a mujahideen community. As he rises up the ranks, Dantala must decide what sort of man he wants to become and where his loyalties lie in a world where all circumstances, good or bad, are put to down to the will of Allah. When a bloody confrontation arises, led by young militant followers of Jibril s brother, Dantala gets sucked into the madness that destroys some of those closest to him and lands him into a horrific incarceration. In the end, he survives but one gets the feeling that the author could have developed the various storylines and better tied up some loose ends. Sometimes the shifting from journaled thoughts to the main story could be a bit disorienting. Friendship and young love instil moments of hope into the otherwise grim landscape of this short novel. The language is uncomplicated language with elements of humour mixed into a tragic tale told in a delicately candid style. John narrates in an authentic manner, most likely from the experience of growing up in a predominantly Muslim community and having interacted with real-life almajiri. The Nigeria-based John has twice been shortlisted for the Caine Prize for African Writing for his short stories. He is also a satirical writer and says, in his website, that when I am not making up stuff, I am making fun of stuff. 