The offence of treason has been significantly invoked in the last few weeks within social media and mainstream media. Its history in Kenya is both mischievous and tragic. Its emergence in the current political space is an extension of the mischief, but this time with the hope of tragic political consequences. The recent call to have Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko charged for treason for political remarks he made at the funeral of Prince Henry Dolamu Oduwale, husband of former Kathiani MP Wavinya Ndeti, is an overt revelation of the hidden intent in the broad Opposition against Jubilee and its political assets towards the 2017 election. The Opposition and its think tanks have formulated a plan to completely criminalize Jubilee so that it can be punished come 2017 and thereafter. Little did we know their ultimate intention is to accuse Jubilee of treason. Criminalisation is an old political tool in this country that has been frequently used to incarcerate some including without due process while glorifying others through a false framing of victimhood. In the colonial era, sections of entire populations, particularly the communities that formed the core of the Mau Mau, were unilaterally criminalized and sent to concentration camps and many were summarily hanged. The idea was to frame the African, referred to as the native, as a barbaric, cannibalistic, and uncivilized criminal. The colonial masters on the other hand were the benevolent saviour who would rescue those who accepted them from the victimhood of the native who waged resistance. In essence, the revolting native was a criminal, the compliant one the victim and the colonial master the benevolent saviour. Shortly after Independence, when the criminal native had triumphed over the imperial master and taken over the State, the cynical narrative was extended to the new frontier. Within no time the African State was roundly labelled as criminal, while the population became victim. The former colonial master remained as benevolent saviour and increasingly manipulated the new order through his African agents. The whole African political narrative is therefore simply framed and defined as a criminal state vs a victim population. It is a wedge that has been forced between African states and their people that has infinitely assured that conflicts live within these states. The benevolent master is never far away and these days acts almost exclusively through his agents. There are several events, both overt and covert, that the Opposition has induced, either directly through its chief principal Raila Odinga, or its other political assets that create a chain of intention that reveals the malice behind the move to completely criminalize Jubilee. The strategy is increasingly bearing fruit, with accusations against Jubilee getting bolder and even managing to have JP strongholds turn against themselves and thereby undermine itself from the core, from within. Let s start with the attempt, fleeting as it appeared to be, to criminalize Mike Sonko, Jubilee maverick. On Friday October 14, Mike Sonko found himself alone and surrounded by a veritable pack of hyenas, ready to tear him to pieces. At the funeral in Machakos, a Cord stronghold, the Jubilee firebrand was alone within hostile territory. Sonko is as big as Jubilee Party political assets come, after the two principals. The Senator from Nairobi relates easily across all platforms within the country, speaks directly to the people and bridges them with power. He is just about the only politician who is in demand to address the people in any event he attends from Kisumu to Mombasa and from Namanga to Mandera and everywhere in-between. He has multiple constituencies in Nairobi, Ukambani and at the Coast, where he can easily win seats were he to choose any of them. As a political asset and enforcer, Sonko is critically important for the ruling Jubilee Party on its way to re-election. The criminalized news coverage of the funeral and Sonko s attempt to hold his breath and protect his space while the massed Opposition was clearly trying to maul him is a political masterstroke from Cord. What Raila s media assets have achieved is discredit a huge JP political asset and turn his own people against him. The mischief in the news coverage is that the treason angle came a day after the funeral, when strategists had had enough time to frame the story through the criminal lens they want to depict Jubilee in on everything. Sonko has claimed he has been edited, but what has truly happened is that he is both being censored and criminalized. This is the highest form of political censorship we have seen in a long time. Sonko s words have been taken by Opposition media assets and made to sound a certain way to favour the Cord criminal narrative reserved for the ruling Jubilee Party. They have managed to have the whole country deny Sonko the warm camaraderie he enjoys across the country and, specifically, within Jubilee, by convicting him of high treason against the President and the Deputy President. Sonko s only crime was the unpalatable truth he told his Kamba people. He was candid enough to the people of Ukambani about their forlorn political situation. Here they are, facing yet another election, and being condemned to the political fringe once again by sheepishly following Raila Amolo Odinga. What Sonko was telling them is that, in all probability, he is in truth their closest relationship to power and should they make the Odinga mistake again, they would be roundly condemned, if not completely isolated. When he said he was acting President, he was only showing the people that indeed he is that close to power and can powerfully and effectively intercede on their behalf as we have seen him do many times before. If anything, he delivered the President s condolences to Wavinya Ndeti s family. The media has however bastardized the whole event to fit the Opposition narrative. They have picked up the highest crime in the land, treason, and used it a brazen attempt to lynch Sonko. He has been completely censored and his statements caricatured to show him as a drunken crazy, when all Sonko was doing is standing up for himself and Jubilee while practically in the crocodile s mouth. They have taken Sonko s history of good deeds fighting for the people in his characteristic unconventional way and projected it using this criminal lens. They are basically hanging Sonko out for his own supporters to lynch him. But this is just the latest in many events the Opposition and their media assets are using to cut down Jubilee assets to leave Kenyatta and Ruto isolated and exposed, without defenders or an offense capability 10 months to an election. They want to get him out of the game. Just take a closer look at the reaction to the Presidency s Anti-Corruption and Accountability State House Summit. Opposition media assets John Githongo, David Ndii and Prof Michael Wainaina poured scorn on the initiative by first pretending not to have received their invitations and then dismissing it as a circus. Prof Ndii spent valuable newspaper Op Ed space purporting to teach Chief of Staff and Head of the Civil Service Joseph Kinyua and Deputy Chief of Staff Nzioka Waita how to invite public intellectuals of his world stature to State House summits. Prof Wainaina essayed a defamatory piece next to Prof Ndii s scurrilous drivel on the nonsensical non-issue of President Kenyatta s impunity DNA, in which he also managed to insult each and everyone who has ever been President of the Republic of Kenya. Earlier in the year, a bizarre story emerged on social media that caused untold anxiety within Jubilee and schadenfreude excess within the Opposition. On June 30 this year, the nation woke up to statements that Denis Itumbi, Jubilee s foremost social media asset, had been fired and locked out of State House. It was alleged that the President had actually disbanded the whole Presidential Strategic Communications Unit that included Denis, Munyori Buku, Eric Ng eno and Joseph Kinyua (no relation to the Chief of Staff) for apparently infighting and unilaterally issuing juvenile would-be Presidential statements. When the dust settled, it emerged that this was pure infiltration and fabrication by Opposition media assets to criminalize the President s entire communication team and leave the Presidency voiceless and with egg on its public face. The strategy was to decapitate Jubilee s communication assets and expose the ruling party to attacks without any credible defence. It failed, but was nevertheless a formidable attack that left the incumbent administration wounded and vulnerable. During the Jubilee Party launch in early September, one performance became the JP coup de grace musician Bahati s performance. The performance was the essence of the new youth; bold, provocative, exciting, daring, uplifting and confident. Bahati s move to lift the party leader and his deputy from their chairs and serenade their ladies was artistic genius that managed to convey the demystification of power by the Jubilee Duo. Bahati s performance was the epitome of the youth power that Jubilee had harnessed and projected for itself. The Opposition was riled and couldn t cope. Bahati was soon made into a villain and criminalized almost beyond a comeback. The performance was projected through the Opposition s understanding of Presidential power a tin god up above and duped mortals below. Bahati had in their eyes committed both sacrilege and blasphemy and deserved to be stoned to death. The idea is to use the Opposition s media and academic assets to throw Jubilee to the lynch mob, come election time. And its procedure is contained in the infamous English proverb: Give a dog a bad name and hang him . Nkaari Martin is head of the CBO Caucus on Politics and Elections at the International Policy Group. He has extensive experience in research and analysis in public policy.