Deputy President William Ruto yesterday asked politicians not to politicise national security issues.He said security matters are at the heart of the nation s well-being and sovereignty should be left to those concerned.The DP spoke in Ngong during the burning of 5,250 illicit firearms.Ruto said issues of security transcend party politics, adding that no one should introduce politics in the management of the country s security for mileage.He said, Let us not gamble with our lives by introducing partisan games in the management of security. The Deputy President said the Kenyan Defence Forces deployed to peacekeeping missions outside the country risk their lives for the safety of the country and they deserve respect and honour. The President s decision on national security matters is not minor, whatever decision he makes is well considered, he said. Ruto added, The decision taken by the Commander-in-Chief on South Sudan was well executed. The DP said Kenya s security personnel are well trained and have served with distinction in many parts of the world.They could not have been deployed for any peacekeeping mission for the mere gaining of experience.Ruto said Kenya s security personnel are experienced. They put their lives on the line to protect their motherland. They do not go to peace missions to get allowances or for monetary gains. What they go for is a matter of life and death. The DP said the challenges the country faces with security have been contained. He expressed confidence the country will not go back to a state of insecurity again.Ruto announced the destruction of 5,250 assorted illicit firearms, saying their continued presence in wrong hands violates peace. He said, Armed violence, community conflicts, cattle rustling, poaching and violent crime are what make illicit arms dangerous. Ruto praised community efforts aimed at securing the country, saying such efforts would help contain drug trafficking, human trafficking and piracy, which he said is fuelled by the presence of illegal firearms.