Mumias youths, who forced ODM leader Raila Odinga to storm off a rally last week, have said they did not intend to disappoint him and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya.Raila had gone to console people allegedly harassed by GSU officers, accompanied by Oparanya and MCAs Rocky Omwendo (Mumias North) and Libinus Oduor (Mayoni).He was forced to take off after the crowd turned violent accusing them of neglecting the victims.More on this: Raila storms off Mumias rally after youths break windscreenYouths Faraj Faluma and Musa Ekaya said they respected Raila, whom they described as a statesman, and that he is free to go to any part of the world.The opposition chief is welcome in Mumias, they said, adding that they only wanted to "discipline" ward representatives who have not been performing their duties. Some of the MCAs have failed to understand that we voted for them alongside the Governor yet they have been flower girls. They follow him wherever he goes but do not do much in their ward, said Ekaya.Faluma said: So the chaos that erupted at Shibale were aimed at showing Raila and Oparanya that we are fed up with the kind of MCAs who are tailing the governor wherever he goes."The two further told the press in Mumias town on Sunday that some of the MCAs did not understand their roles. They noted their duties include representing the electorates at the county assembly, oversight over public funds at the county government and legislating laws.Chaos erupted at the rally at Shibale shopping centre after a disagreement over who could address the people.A witness said the incident, that left the window of Raila's vehicle shattered, began when he sent MCAs Rocky Omwendo (Mumias North) and Libinus Oduor (Mayoni) to check if they could address residents.Read: Arrest Washiali over attack on Raila in Mumias - Bungoma 'moneybags'The two MCAs were beaten by the supporters of Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali who refused to hand the microphone to Oparanya.Faluma said that compared to others, not much development has taken place in Oduor's ward.Ekaya claimed MCA worked with former Mumias Sugar Company managers and was to blame for the miller's predicaments."He was awarded a contract to repackage sugar at the factory. He hired youth for the casual job but never paid them. Youths are so bitter with him, he said.Faluma complained why Mayoni ward was less developed compared to Koyonzo despite their equal share of county government resources. In Koyonzo, there is a new market center, three health centers and ward offices, constructed through the ward development fund. But in my Mayoni ward, nothing is happening. Where does the money meant to develop Mayoni go? he asked.The man further complained about Mayanza road, saying it was damaged three months after construction work was completed. The road was only graded by his proxy company and left within a very shoddy state, he said.