FOX Life treated media partners and invited guests to a night of jazzy rhythms and a delectable 3-course meal at Caramel Lounge and Restaurant in Westlands as they launched FOX Life, an innovative new addition to the FOX Network Group into the African market. The event, held on the 27th of October, was hosted by NTV's Sheila Mwanyigha and was graced by DSTV Head of Media Sales, Jackee Nyaga, Director of Sales and Marketing of FOX Africa Group, Baleseng Dlamini and FOX Network Group Director, Ads, Sales &amp; Marketing, Makhosazana Khanyile. Guests were entertained by songbird, June Gachui, who set the relaxed mood with her melodic sound.The launch of the channel in Kenya is aimed to be a bold and entertaining Pan-African channel, tailored for Africa and offers fresh local content along with an eclectic and exciting mix of US dramas, comedies and unscripted programming. As part of the new channel, an additional 954 hours of fresh new programming will be added to the schedule over the coming months, focused on localised storytelling, created specifically for African viewers.FOX Life s entry into the market signals FNG S continued investment in Africa. Its portfolio reflects the best in entertainment, factual and sports. At the launch, Ag. MultiChoice Kenya Managing Director Catherine Bomett said, Entertainment is a powerful way to tell stories that open our minds, bring people together around shared passions, and connect us to new realities. We are extremely proud to be associated with the Fox Network Group and especially happy about the addition of Fox Life to our channel line-up. This is a great leap towards our mission to offer our subscribers fresh, wholesome and relevant content. The channel will have the best of Hollywood in the form of Pitch and Atlanta, Turkish and Brazilian Telenovelas, scripted and unscripted local content as well as dramas. Some of the lifestyle and drama shows will be coming from across the African continent like Maliposa, a Zambian drama and Wrathfrom Nigeria. There is also an exciting show on young Nigerian-born DJ Cuppy (Florence IfeoluwaOtedola) who goes on an ambitious tour of eight countries across Africa. In a male dominated field DJ Cuppy has made inroads and describes her sound as Neo Afrobeats .PHOTOS/ Brian Simiyu