SBM Holdings, a Mauritius financial services group, has entered into a deal to acquire Kenya's bottom-tier Fidelity Bank by end of the year after failing to secure a licence for direct entry. Mauritius second biggest publicly traded firm plans to complete the deal by end of the year subject to regulatory approvals, the Central Bank said in a statement yesterday. The lender, valued at about Sh427 billion ($4.2 billion) in November, also has international operations in India, Madagascar, and a representative office in Myanmar.The group said it will pump Sh1.46 billion additional capital into Fidelity once the deal in sealed. The buyout underlines the gradual market-led consolidation in the industry which has 41 banks, serving a population of 44 million one of the highest bank-population ratio in the world. SBM Group will bring its experience and expertise from Mauritius and other markets, to enhance competitiveness and the resilience of Kenya s banking sector, CBK said. SBM Group is pursuing an international expansion strategy, and for the African region, it is anchored on Kenya as the entry point for Eastern Africa. The CBK on November 17, 2015 indefinitely suspended licensing of new banks, but left the door open for mergers and acquisitions. CBK deputy governor Sheila M Mbijjewe, however, said on September 8 that despite the moratorium on new licences, many investor delegations from around the world have continued to enquire about opportunities in Kenya. Lenders from Middle East particularly UAE and Egypt are leading the chase, the CBK deputy chief said. East Africa is seen as growth powerhouse in Africa (and) a lot of people are interested in the Kenyan space, M Mbijjewe said in an interview during Kenya Bankers Association 5th annual conference in Nairobi.The CBK said yesterday it welcomes the interest of foreign banks that will contribute to the emergence of a world-class financial sector .The 14-branch Fidelity is ranked 31 out of 41 banks with a market share of 0.39 per cent, going by statistics as at end of December last year. The lender started as a non-bank financial institution in June 1992, and converted into a commercial bank in April 1996.