Calls for the postponement of the 2017 general election could gather steam after the emergence of a lobby group to spearhead the process. Nyamira Senator Kennedy Mongare will in December launch Kenya Kwanza, a lobby he says will help mobilise the country to postpone the general election scheduled for August 8. Mong are says Kenya Kwanza is an extra-parliamentary voter-driven initiative with the sole aim of pushing the election date to March 2018.He wants the election deferred on the grounds that the incoming IEBC commissioners may not have enough time to prepare for the August election date. With the state of unpreparedness within IEBC, it is not possible to hold election by the planned august date, Mong are says.He argues Kenyans need an assurance that the August 2017 date will not again lead to chaos as was the case in 2007, and he believes this can only be achieved through pushing the election to March 2018. The senator s initiative is likely to get traction from members of the County Assemblies, who have been advancing the same argument.However unlike the Senator, the MCAs argue that holding election in August will disadvantage them and cut their term by up nine months.It will canvass for a referendum on election date through the collection of one million signatures as required by law. Mong are argues that Parliament should have undertaken the initiative and saved the public unnecessary anguish of the referendum. But these are not ordinary times, he says.There have been two previous attempts in Parliament to push the election date later than August 2017. The attempt by Ugenya MP David Ochieng remains the most famous one. He had proposed to push the elections to December, instead of August, through the Constitutional Amendment Bill 2014. But it flopped on a technicality after the House failed to muster the requisite numbers to propel the Bill to the next legislative step.The Ugenya MP had argued the August date is too crowded with activities for Kenyans to effectively exercise their democratic right. He cited the school calendar and the high tourist season. In that particular case, there were less pressing reasons, but now there are valid reasons arising out of belated changes at the IEBC, Mong are notes.For one, the senator argues, the incoming commissioners will not have enough time to replenish the over 7,000 biometric kits and 12,000 electronic voter identification devices which have collapsed if the date sticks to August 2017. In addition, the commission will not even have time to restore the Results Transmission System, clear the voter register and organise another voter registration to bring an estimated 9 million new eligible voters on the roll. Even though he is cagey on other individuals behind the initiative, the senator says Kenya Kwanza will place national interests above those of selfish politicians.The lobby will have a skeleton secretariat to enable it canvass its message through hand bills, brochures, pamphlets, radio and TV talk shows, town hall and outdoor public rallies. It will also have county coordinators and, in addition to pushing the election date, canvass to have changes in the Constitution to address the 20 per cent portion which forced the religious fraternity to oppose the draft constitution in the 2010 referendum. The Kriegler Commission recommended that an election body should always be in place two clear years to the polls, Mong are says.The election date is anchored in the constitution, the second Tuesday of August of every election year, the 2013 election was held in March after the 2012 court ruling. While useful as a precedent. the court judgment alone cannot be taken in itself as an amendment to the constitution. 