Athletes converge at Nairobi s Posta grounds as the first Athletics Kenya cross country meeting gets underway on Saturday.Hundreds of athletes are expected to light up the showpiece, which will set title defence stage for the 42nd IAAF World Cross Country Championships set for Kampala, Uganda, on March 26.The event, which opens the AK 2016/2017 calendar of events and the AK six cross-country meetings, comes even as the nation prepares to host 10th IAAF World Under-18 Championships to be held in Nairobi on July 12-16 and the IAAF World Athletics Championships in London.World cross country champion Japhet Korir will lead a stellar cast that includes Africa 5,000m champion Sheila Chepkurui, world junior stars Emily Chebet and Sandra Felis Chebet.Others are Geoffrey Koech and Philip Kiprono. They will take on Silas Kimutai, who hails from Kiplombe village in Baringo County, perennial competitor Mary Wacera in the signature races.The team from Kericho, which is Kenya s seedbed of youth and junior athletes, are expected to offer stiff challenge to the city-based athletics stars.Sammy Bii, a coach running an athletics training camp in Kericho, said they hope to give the elite field a run for their money. We are coming with a strong team of more than 10 athletes from South Rift. We hope to put our preparations for the national trials on course, said Bii.Nairobi branch kicks off the season with the first AK cross country series on Saturday before proceeding to Kangaru High School in Embu on November 12.Elite and upcoming athletes will strive to consolidate points for a share of Sh1m AK jackpot. Nyahururu will stage the third AK cross country meeting on November 19 then Eldoret s Tuskys Wareng cross country bonanza that always attracts a high turn-out alongside the Discovery Kenya cross country meet which is the oldest local cross country race in the country and comes up on February 22 at the Eldoret Sports Club.The fourth AK cross country series moves to Iten on December 3rd and then Kapsakwony on December 10. Machakos will stage the sixth meet on December 18 while Sotik wraps up the seven-leg series on January 7.Barnaba Korir, the AK executive and Nairobi branch chairman, said preparations for the event are on-going. He said they were ready to stage the event in which they gearing up to reclaim junior men s title. We are taking the meeting seriously. We want to take a lion share in junior races to the World Cross Country Championships and the tedious journey starts from here, said Korir. Kenya has dominated World Championships since 1986 when John Ngugi won his first of the five titles.