It s a nightmare scenario that the powers that be could have envisaged, but today either former champions Sofapaka or Ushuru will bid goodbye to the SportPesa Premier League.The two sides face tricky afternoon with Sofapaka needing to win at home to Thika United and upstage their relegation rivals, who need to avoid defeat against Posta Rangers to remain in the top division. Sofapaka, who won the league on their debut in 2009, have not been the same since club s president Elly Kalekwa and the money that revolutionised player wages in the Premier League went missing .Players, who initially fell over themselves to join the then money bags left in droves and only the likes of Jaffrey Gichuki, who are well past their prime and other little known players with the ambition of making a mark in the league remained. Now though, they will need Noah Abich to use his set piece expertise to spare them the guillotine.The veteran right back, who was recently named the KPL/SJAK player of the month for October and three-time league winner, has been instrumental in keeping Sofapaka in the league up until the final day with his dead ball prowess that has supplied ammunition for many a goals that they have scored.While there will be mortal fear of the unknown on both sides, it will be celebration for Tusker when they face Gor Mahia, the team they toppled as champions.The brewers hold a four-point advantage and plans have been finalised to make their big day memorable as they celebrate winning their eleventh top flight title. According to KPL league and competitions administrator Michael Kirwa, the event will be brief but colourful, and that players will be allowed to take pictures with their loved ones and fans at the venue after the official ceremony. SportPesa have promised to take care of everything and we have gone through, basically all the activities that should happen on Saturday. After the game, Tusker players will retreat to the dressing room to change into their champions attire before they return to the pitch to receive the trophy. We expect everything to run smoothly. Tusker will also receive Sh4.5 million in prize money for winning the league title. Third place will also be up for grabs with six teams capable of finishing in that position. Ulinzi in fifth need to beat Bandari as does Chemelil, who must get a result against Mathare United. Western Stima clash with Kakamgea Homeboyz as they seek to grab the bragging rights of Bukhungu.