Chaos erupted at Shibale shopping centre in Mumias yesterday when Cord leader Raila Odinga visited to console victims of police brutality.Raila was forced to take off after youth turned violent, accusing him of neglecting the victims during the time they were beaten and terrorised by police.He was accompanied by Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya. Raila was on his way from Bungoma to Kakamega. Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali and former ODM youth leader Rashid Mohammed had organised the meeting. Washiali was speaking, when MCAs Rocky Omwendo (Mumias North ward) and Libinus Oduor (Mayoni ward) arrived and informed him Raila and Oparanya would attend the event. The two ODM leaders arrived shortly and went to the podium. Omwendo interrupted Washiali, demanding that Oparanya be allowed to welcome Raila to address the crowd.Photo caption: Mumias North MCA Rocky Omwendo faces the wrath of Washiali supporters at the chaos that erupted at Shibale shopping center in Mumias.All hell broke lose when Omwendo attempted to snatch the microphone from Washiali. Washiali s supporters attacked Omwendo. They beat him and threw stones at him. Omwendo and Oduor fled for safety in their cars parked 100 meters away. Raila and Oparanya appeared unfazed at the podium. Rashid accused Oparanya of neglecting the people of Mumias, despite the large number of votes he garnered from the Wanga community. Why should it take you two days to move from Kakamega to Mumias, less than 30km, when your people were being oppressed by security agents? Rashid asked Oparanya.Oparanya tried to address the crowd but he was jeered by the youths who said he didn g care about them. Washiali asked why the ODM leadership was fighting for the fall of Mumias Sugar Company so people of Mumias can remain in abject poverty. Why hasn t Raila come here with Kidero to say sorry to the people of Mumias? Why did Oparanya give Sh200 million to a businessman in the name of granting Mumias Sugar Company? asked Washiali. He accused Oparanya of double-speak against the people of Mumias and taking them for granted. But 2017 is not far. We shall tell these people what your intentions are for them, he said. Washiali and Rashid are Jubilee kingpins in Kakamega county. Raila called Rashid aside where they talked briefly before he went to his vehicle. It was damaged after youths threw stones at the windscreen. Then Raila was driven off for an ODM function in Kakamega.