The Public Collections Act of 1962 is now outdated. It was a colonial law meant to regulate public collections in a setting where Africans were peripheral to the money economy. The colonial authorities themselves were suspicious of any independent collective initiatives by the so-called natives. The African leaders were, however, defiant. The Kikuyu Central Association broke the myth that Africans could not initiate development by themselves by starting an independent educational institution in Githunguri where teachers were trained. The same institution became a hotbed of politics, leading to its dismemberment by the colonialists during the advent of the Land Freedom Army, nicknamed Mau Mau by the same colonialists. In Nyanza Jaramogi Oginga Odinga and his associates, my father included, launched the Luo Thrift and Trading Corporation (LUTATCO), a successful business venture bringing together hundreds of shareholders who mobilized enough capital to build schools, posho mills, the first office block building in Kisumu, buildings for Ng iya Teacher Training College and many others. Between 1958 and 1963, as the struggle for Uhuru approached the Independence climax, there was a temporary lull in the collective economic initiatives by Africans. More energy was devoted to politics rather than economics. The Legislative Council passed the Public Collection Act in 1962 just before independence at a time when the colonial authorities were themselves very anxious about what type of leaders Kenya would have after the white man s departure. The law wanted the state to keep a record of how groups of people, or cunning individuals, could collect money presumably for philanthropy but in essence for other dangerous activities.With the advent of Independence, the Public Collection Act remained a dormant law in our law books to this very day. While public collection of money for all kinds of purposes has become more and more vibrant since independence, it has been carried on outside any legal framework. The end result is that the malpractices and injustices that quite often occur when individuals misappropriate or misuse public collections go unchecked, and the innocent members of the public remain the silent sufferers. This does not mean that public collection is a bad thing. It simply means that when good things are done without any proper systems or laws to safeguard them, they can be manipulated or misused by unscrupulous persons. We need to guard against this. One of the most visible type of public collection in Kenya is Harambee. It was soon after independence that the Harambee movement started in earnest. It is said that the word harambee comes from Ambeh the Hindu God of Strength. When the Indians were brought to Kenya to build the Kenya-Uganda railway towards the end of the 19th century, apparently they used to appeal to Ambeh so as to pull together. Be that as it may, the word eventually found itself in the Swahili language meaning let us pull together . With the scarcity of social amenities such as schools and health services at independence, the African nationalists decided to mobilize the public to collect funds to put up these amenities. Harambee schools and health facilities were put up all over the country. The most famous harambee project was the Gatundu Self Help hospital started by Mzee Jomo Kenyatta. Delegations after delegations used to visit Kenyatta in Gatundu and the normal routine was to contribute to this self help project. In the end nobody kept track of how much money had been collected and whether it was all used in building the hospital. This was true of many other projects, a good number of which succeeded while some remained white elephants many years after they had been initiated. Looking through the records of parliamentary debates in the Hansard, Parliament has always been concerned about the culture of harambee and the extent to which it has been used for the good of the country while also suffering some setbacks of lack of accountability. This concern led the National Rainbow Coalition Government (NARC) under Mwai Kibaki to actually propose the banning of harambees when Hon. Kiraitu Murungi moved a motion in Parliament on 13 March 2003 which was very vigorously debated. The proposed law actually banned leaders from participating in Harambees but it was never actively enforced. On 9th November 2003, Vice President Moody Awori conducted a funds drive at the Ruiru Prison Staff Training College as a guest of honor only two days after President Mwai Kibaki had dramatically cancelled a bursaries fundraiser in Nyeri because his participation would have been illegal.The Koigi wa Wamwere Task Force on Harambee went even further when its report was tabled in Parliament then. It proposed the banning of harambees and its replacement with a form of philanthropy which would be more accountable and more socially responsible. The Report took its point of departure from the Musikari Kombo Select Committee on Anti-Corruption Report which accused almost every Kenyan to somewhow be an originator or beneficiary of corruption. Wanting to outdo each other through public collections, public servants are compelled to participate in or tolerate corruption much to the detriment of our society. Both the Kombo and the Wamwere Reports recommended that Harambee should be banned, but nothing happened.It is quite clear that the spirit of coming together to pull resources for the public good is not itself bad; it is indeed a good thing and it has led to good things. But it can be abused as it has indeed been abused in Kenya. In order not to throw away the baby with the birth water I moved a motion in The Senate some time ago to look afresh into the public collection issue so as to find ways of sanitizing and regulating public collection in general. The Senate formed a committee which I chaired. We went around the country to collect views from the people. I remember very clearly that in the Kakamega County Assembly members were very clear that Harambee should be banned and be replaced with a much more humane system of collecting public funds for the public good. In the end we recommended the following. One, that the spirit of self-help, while a good thing, should be regulated in law. Two, that the law should take into account that individual incomes should not be taxed more than once. While it is the responsibility of the state to use people s taxes to provide social amenities, citizens themselves can also opt to be philanthropic and contribute voluntarily to the public good. This should be the spirit of harambee which, in business, is recognized as Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Firms usually get tax exemption when they engage in CSR. Individuals philanthropic contributions should also be tax exempted when they are made in an accountable manner. It is the duty of government to put in law systems of accountability in public collection which would not favor corporates while discriminating against ordinary citizens who are philanthropic. This concept of a responsible and accountable public collection system has not been well understood by its critics. The idea of having a public record of harambees obviously will not go well with those who receive illicit money to contribute lavishly to harambees. Those of us who raid our bank accounts to contribute to harambees need this accountable system so that we can deduct these collections from our income and report the same to the tax authorities. This is how it is done in societies where philanthropy has advanced leading to the establishment of philanthropic foundations which have accomplished monumental development work on those societies. We need as a nation to go forward in our development thinking rather than get stuck in development models of yesterday. Thinking in this direction has made me a little unpopular with some people. But the truth needs to be told.