As the Kenya football league season draws to a close and the holidays approach, football tournaments to keep the youth busy are set to be staged across the country.Kenya Pipeline football tournament scheduled for tomorrow in Nakuru will get the programme rolling and will involve all genders and different age groups.The event is part of a series sporting activities Kenya Pipeline will be unveiling as a community outreach strategy to cultivate good relations with communities, institutions and the businesses along the pipeline right of way, said Kenya Pipeline Company a managing director Joe Sang. Kenya Pipeline is sponsoring the tourney.He added: The first such sporting extravaganza will be at Afraha Stadium, Nakuru this Friday when various local teams will fight for top honours in the KPC soccer tournament. As Africa s premier oil &amp; gas company with an eye on the continent s emerging oil &amp; gas opportunities, sports is one avenue of empowering the people to become change agents in their own communities. KPC welcomes Kenyans from all walks of life to come to Nakuru and enjoy an unforgettable sporting experience. Tournament coordinator Dickson Gitari said the tournament will be a one-day affair and will see four different categories participate. Our target as usual is to try and nurture the talent that abounds in Nakuru County as well as keep our youths busy and focused during this festive period to ensure they use their energies to good effect, said Gitari. The tournament that has drawn a total of 18 teams will see two Wazee teams compete against each other before giving way for four ladies clubs to take to the pitch. Queens FC will be among the four teams who will take part in the women s competition whose winners will pocket Sh20,000 with runners-up pocketing Sh10,000.As is the requirement, Gitari revealed that they had liaised with the Football Kenya Federation sub-branch as well as the Nakuru County sports ministry to ensure everything runs smoothly. We have involved and invited the federation as well as the official of the county because we want the tournament to grow so that our youths can develop their God given abilities, stated Gitari. The main event will be the under-17 tournament, where eight teams among them Nakuru Youth Sports Association, Mazembe, Makadara, Bondeni, Kiamuini among others will compete for the Sh30,000 winners purse. There will also be an under 13 tournament which will feature four teams.