SO what became of Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his ODM crusade? Joho and his comrade Suna East MP Junet Mohamed have been missing in action for weeks now. While it's understood that the firebrand governor recently travelled to France, ODM supporters are asking questions about his deafening silence and major no show. Joho had lined up a series of activities, including in Eldoret. He had also promised to spearhead Raila Odinga's presidential campaigns. Junet, too, has been missing in action and skipped the ODM National Governing Council meeting recently. Could there be a problem deep inside the Orange Party? ===AN ongoing attempt to push back the August 2017 election date has amused some Jubilee and Cord legislators. Our mole tells Corridors the MPs were overheard vowing to lobby for the support of an amendment Bill being proposed by their colleague as this will enable them to pocket extra cash for the campaigns. The MPs are said to regret why they rejected a similar law twice last year, pushed by Ugenya MP David Ochieng. It is said the legislators will defy any de-whipping attempt by their coalition principals to pass the amendment Bill. They also cite the limited time the IEBC commissioners have to prepare and conduct next year's polls.===TENSION has remained high in Sirisia constituency a day after area MP John Waluke put up a Jubilee Party office at the Sirisia Market centre. Corridors is told Waluke was considering hiring security officers to guard the office after youths warned him when he visited the building. Jubilee remains unpopular in the region and it is becoming hard to sell the new party. Waluke is walking a tightrope after he decamped to JP from ODM. Sirisia constituency has been a battleground for ODM and Ford Kenya.===SO what became of Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his ODM crusade? Joho and his comrade Suna East MP Junet Mohamed have been missing in action for weeks now. While it's understood that the firebrand governor recently travelled to France, ODM supporters are asking questions about his deafening silence and major no show. Joho had lined up a series of activities, including in Eldoret. He had also promised to spearhead Raila Odinga's presidential campaigns. Junet, too, has been missing in action and skipped the ODM National Governing Council meeting recently. Could there be a problem deep inside the Orange Party?===A youthful MP was almost a victim of the Wednesday night swoop by Nairobi county officers on noisy clubs around residential areas. The man and his bevy of beauties had just parked outside one of the clubs that was clamped down when security personnel and Nema officers pounced. He later explained to his friends how he had been misled into visiting the club, which he never frequents, for the birthday party of one of the beauties - and vowed never to be dragged into 'unknown' places again.===A Jubilee MP from the Rift Valley was heard complaining that President Kenyatta at times takes them for granted. He astonished revellers at a club in Kileleshwa when he bitterly complained that the President had failed to invite him for his son's traditional marriage ceremony in Icaweri, Gatundu South, tomorrow. He went on to say that the President needs to know that they can withdraw their support and "send him back to Icaweri next year".