It was a bad outing for Kenyan artistes at this year's edition Africa Music Awards held on Sunday night at the Eko Hotel and Suites in Victoria Islands in Lagos, Nigeria.All ten Kenyan nominees returned home empty-handed, as their Tanzanian and Ugandan counterparts scooped gongs at the glamorous event.This was contrary to last year's edition of the awarding event, where Kenya bagged three awards.Read: Kenya wins big at AFRIMA 2015The Kenyan nominees included AFRIMMA winners Sauti Sol, Mercy Masika, Avril, Nyashinski, Victoria Kimani and Dufla Diligon.Others were Kanyekiz, Evelyn Wanjiru, Denno and Papa Dennis.Sauti Sol.During the event, bongo star Diamond Platnumz scooped two awards (Best Male East Africa and Song of the Year- Utanipenda).From Uganda, Grandpa Records-signed singer Cindy Sanyu won the Best Female East Africa award, Unique bagged Songwriter of the Year award, as Best African Collaboration award went to Mbilo Mbilo by Eddy Kenzo ft Niniola (Nigeria).Sensational Nigerian singer Wizkid, whom earlier on Sunday night had won two awards at the MTV Europe Music Awards 2016, was named as the overall Artiste of the Year. Related: Akothee is celebrated at flamboyant victory homecoming party after winning two international awardsSee the full list of winners below:1. Best Male East Africa Diamond Platnumz (Tanzania)2. Best Female East Africa Cindy Sanyu (Uganda)3. Best Male South Africa Black Coffee (South Africa)4. Best female South Africa Sally Boss Madam (Namibia)5. Best Male Central Africa- Wax Dey (Cameroon)6. Best Female Central Africa- Bruna Tatiana (Angola)7. Best Male North Africa DJ Van (Morocco)8. Best Female North Africa- Zina Daoudia (Morocco)9. Best Male West Africa Flavour (Nigeria)10. Best Female West Africa Aramide (Nigeria)11. Best Inspirational Female Naomi Achu (Cameroon)12. Best Artiste/Dou/GroupBand in African Contemporary- Flavour (Nigeria)13. Most Promising Artiste- Amine Aub (Morocco)14. African Fans Favorite Phyno (Nigeria)15. Songwriter of the Year Unique (Uganda)16. Special Recognition Award King Sunny Ade (Nigeria)17. Best Artist/Duo/Group African Hip hop- Stanley Enow (Cameroon)18. Best Artist/Duo/Group African Ragga &amp; Dancehall- Patoranking (Nigeria)19. Best Artist/Duo/Group African Traditional music- Zeynab (Benin)20. Best Artist/Duo/Group African Electro Such (Zimbabwe)21. Best Artist/Duo/Group African R&amp;B Henok &amp; Mehari Brothers (Ethiopia)22. Best Artist/Duo/Group in African Rock - M vula (Angola)23. Best African Jazz Jimmy Dludlu (South Africa)24. Best African Group -VVIP (Ghana)25. Best African Collaboration Mbilo Mbilo by Eddy Kenzo (Uganda) ft Niniola (Nigeria)26. Video of the Year Dogo Yaro by VVIP (Ghana)27. Revelation of the Year Falz (Nigeria)28. Album of the Year Ahmed Soultan (Morocco)29. Song of the Year- Utanipenda Diamond Platnumz (Tanzania)30. Artiste of the Year -Wizkid (Nigeria)