A rift has emerged in Cricket Kenya fraternity over the naming of the national women s team for the United Arabs Emirates International T20 Cup next month.The war pits national team head coach Lameck Onyango and other members of the selection committee over the composition of the squad.According to list shared on the social media by a member of the selection committee, senior players including former captain Sylvia Kinyua, Mercyline Adhiambo, Mary Belle and Ruth Mwihaki have been dropped. The omission of the four has raised eyebrows, forcing the coach to disown the team list. I have not selected any team and I am not aware of the team that is doing rounds on social media, Onyango, who has been the coach of the team since 2012, said. But his sentiments were denied by some members of the selection team, saying he was part of it and if there was any stalemate, it was to do with the selection of two junior players and not the entire team. It s unfortunate that we have to iron out selection issues on the social media. The coach was part of the deliberation until when we reached on a stalemate on two players, a member of the committee said. The names of Molet Achieng, Jane Kanini, Freda Akinyi and Veronica Abuga are said to have been the source of the stalemate. Onyango thought Achieng and Akinyi were good enough to make the cut while the other members thought Kanini and Abuga were good. So this is what brought out the stalemate. But talking of having not been involved in the selection of the whole team is a big lie, said of the selection committee members. The selector, who sought anonymity, said the other senior players were left of the team due to various reason including the current form and commitment to the game.Kinyua, Adhiambo and Belle were not included in the squad of 14 players after failing to take part in the Nairobi women s league played in July-August and the national women s championship held in Nakuru in August. We considered the two events. We also looked at their commitment in the game and it was found out that their commitment was not encouraging, the source said.Mwihaki and Kinyua were also not considered for the final squad after the selectors raised concern on their current form. They felt, Mwihaki had become too slow on the field and that his recent turn to spin from medium pace, will not be effective in the tournament as she needs to practice. It was also argued that Kinyua s role as batter at number eight would not be of any value in the team and it s better the spot is given to a youngster.There was also concern in selection of wicket-keeper Sharon Juma over her commitment in the team. Juma has been accused of staying away from the game after every event and only turns out weeks to a tour. But her performance saw her retain her place in the team. Squad: Daisy Wairimu, Sarah Bhakita, Quentor Aoko, Margaret Banja, Mary Wambui, Faith Mwende, Mako Wako, Vanessa Adhiambo, Jane Kanini, Veronica Abuga, Edith Waithaka, Sharon Juma, Brenda Mogusu and Esther Wangare.