Laikipia North MP Mathew Lempurkel was charged yesterday with assaulting fellow legislator Sara Korere at the Office of the President.Lempurkel had earlier pleaded with the court to defer his prosecution to allow him to pursue a complaint he had filed against Korere with the DPP, but his bid flopped after a magistrate rejected his application.He faced a charge of causing bodily harm to Korere, an offence he allegedly committed on Monday at Harambee House. The prosecution said Lempurkel willfully and unlawfully assaulted the nominated MP by slapping her on her left cheek and kicking the lower part of her abdomen.He denied the charge and was directed by senior principal magistrate Joyce Gandani to deposit Sh100,000 cash bail to secure his release, pending trial. In addition, the magistrate warned Lempurkel against intimidating witnesses. This was after the prosecution said he had sent an abusive message to Korere.Earlier, Lempurker told court he should be treated as the complainant and not the accused. Through lawyer Saitabao Kanchory, he claimed Korere beat him and he reported this at the Parliament police station. After getting a P3 form, his lawyer said, he went to Acacia Hospital, where he was treated, before checking in at the Karen Hospital, where he was admitted for observation. He went back to Parliament to follow up on his complaint, but he was arrested, despite being told the matter was still under investigation, Kanchory said.The lawyer was of the view the charges are illegal and it would be highly prejudicial and unjust for the court to proceed with them.But the prosecution opposed the applications, saying the decision to charge Lempurker was arrived at after perusal of the investigation file. State lawyer Daniel Karuri said they looked into the evidence and considered the public interest and circumstances surrounding the incident.The case will be mentioned on December 5. The trial will begin on January 18 next year. The MP was released but later re-arrested and taken to the DCI headquarters for further questioning. MPs Alois Lentoimanga, Lati Lelelit, Raphael Letimalo, Junet Mohamed, Simba Arati, Memusi Kanchori and Opiyo Wandayi demanded his release, accusing Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery of discriminating against him.