Three KCPE exam centres in the Kerio Valley have been relocated to safer areas away from bandit-prone zones and provided with guards.Marakwet East Education officer Kimutai Chirchir said the security move follows two bandit attacks at the weekend.He said 64 candidates from Kombases, Chechan and Chesetan exam centres will sit exams at Kilangata and Murkutwo primary schools. The relocation was done on Monday.Chirchir said candidates at Chesawach Primary School, which had been shut, will not be moved since the area has been calm for a week. We have relocated three centres to safe areas to ensure exams are not disrupted, he said.Chichir said the Kerio Valley has 450 KCPE candidates. Transportation of exams started as early as 5am. We are happy police are providing adequate security in all the centres, he said.Area deputy county commissioner Eric Mulevu said more officers have been deployed to guard Marakwet and Baringo East border along River Kerio. Security officers are working round the clock to ensure candidates and exam officials are safe, Mulevu said.One person was seriously injured and at least 200 goats stolen in Mogil last Saturday. Resident Jeremiah Kibor said additional officers and police reservists are providing security in the bandit-prone valley.Meanwhile, a group of professionals from Elgeyo Marakwet county wants Tiaty MP Asman Kamama to resign as chairman of the parliamentary committee on national security over the attacks in Kerio Valley.They said his constituency is worst-hit, but he has never commented or taken action, despite his influence. In a statement read by Ruth Rotich, the professionals said most suspected raiders come from his constituency and he could hinder transparent investigations into the attacks. A hyena cannot be the judge in a case between itself and the sheep. Clashes in Kerio Valley are not inter-clan wars and we can t have transparent investigations if he still sits in the committee, she said.Rotich said 17 people have died, 15 others seriously injured since March. Some 384 cows, 1,685 goats and 285 sheep have been stolen, she said. Rotich also said farm produce worth Sh14 million have been destroyed.The professionals also accused Deputy President William Ruto of failing to take the matter seriously. They said he mocked residents after he ordered 40 police reservists deployed. This is a mockery, because the distance between the borders of Marakwet East and West is 70km. We demand a 10-fold increase of the KPR from 40 to 400, Rotich said.