The modern world is still reeling from Wednesday's announcement of Republican and former reality TV star Donald Trump as the 45th President of the US. This is apparent from the few congratulatory messages that have been sent to Trump in very measured language, a sign of a wait-and-see stance being taken ahead of him officially taking office on January 20, 2017. What is not in doubt, however, is the racial cracks that Trump's win has opened up in America, previously viewed as the beacon of a working democracy and often juxtaposed against perceived failing administrations the world over. Read: In second day of anti-Trump protests, civil rights a top concern In the hours after Trump's declaration as the winner of the race to the White House, thousands of Democrat candidate Hillary Clinton's supporters took to the streets in several cities across America to protest. On the other side of the political divide, however, reports are emerging of racial and religious attacks against minority groups by alleged Trump supporters.  A dorm in a Lindenwood University, St Charles, Missouri in US where racial confrontations have been reported since the announcement of Donald Trump as the winner of the presidential elections. /MARIA SANCHEZ These stem from the President-elect's rhetoric during the campaign period where he repeatedly uttered sentiments to the effect that under his administration there would be racial and religious profiling of minorities. The most prominent among these utterances is the construction of a wall at the southern border point between the US and Mexico, the cost of which will be incurred by the South American nation. Mexico has since declared that it will not cover the cost of the wall, but in a surprise move, further declared that it is willing to work with the Trump administration for the betterment of citizens of both countries. Despite Mexico extending an olive branch to Trump whose firebrand politics has polarised the nation at a time of volatility with seemingly racially targeted police killings, the billionaire real estate mogul's supporters are enacting the spirit and letter of his campaign declarations that continue to send shock waves across the country. A chronology of these racial and religious attacks perpetrated by alleged Trump supporters, has been captured on micro-blogging site Twitter detailing both verbal and physical confrontations between whites and minorities. Day 1 In Trump's America Trump had himself fanned the flames of racial conflict during the campaigns period, brushing off instances as "enthusiasm" among his supporters. He however took a conciliatory tone while making his acceptance speech going so far as declaring he will be president of all Americans. Bernie Sanders who missed out on the Democratic party's presidential nomination ticket said in a statement that he would back the Trump presidency for as long as his policy would progress the nation.  If Donald Trump takes people's anger and turns it against Muslims, Hispanics, African Americans and women, we will be his worst nightmare. Read: Trump could easily erase much of Obama's foreign policy legacy It is not just Trump supporters that are showing aggression toward perceived outsiders after the historic election. A video surfaced online of young black men assaulting an older white man for allegedly voting Donald Trump. This points to the possibility of retaliatory attacks from the minority groups which will likely lead to a break down of law and order in the country which in recent months has had to grapple with the delicate matter of racial intolerance. Also read: Obama will be the 'last US president', blind psychic warned 