Olympic 800m champion David Rudisha have been appointed the Confederation of African Athletics (CAA) athletes commission president.Rudisha replaces former world 200m record holder Frankie Fredericks of Namibia. He was appointed alongside Mary Amagbenmi (vice president Nigeria), Hakim Toumi (member-Algeria) and Amandine Affoue (member-Ivory Coast).In the appointment letter, CAA president Kalkaba Malboum said: I have chosen you for many objective reasons to lead the destiny of this important commission of which our colleague Frankie Fredericks is the outgoing president. Furthermore, we would appreciate if you propose a work plan to enable the CAA to put in place all the necessary conditions for starting your activities. In this respect, I inform you that by the end of the year, a meeting of the CAA technical committee is envisaged and in which it would be highly appreciate if you take part in it as well as two of your members. Rudisha thanked the continental governing body for the new role and promised to work with relevant authorities in ensuring the rights of athletes are observed. This shows Kenyan athletes are recognised world over. I will fight to ensure athletes rights are factored. I will also seek the improvement of incentives to prevent the high rate of transfer allegiance by athletes from the continent. It is such a privilege and with goods reasons. As one of the elite athletes in the continent, I have done a lot in the world of sports andI believe I am the right person for this post, added Rudisha. This means a lot not only to me but to the country, which has a history of producing very high standards athletes. I believe this role will help bring the athletes together with CAA as we seek to improve on the welfare, he added. At the same time, former world 3,000m steeplechase champion Milka Chemos was named the Athletics Kenya Athletes representative, replacing former Olympic 1500m champion Noah Ngeny. Being an athlete, I know how it feels and I will work with Athletics Kenya in ensuring that all our issues are passed to the relevant authorities for action, said Chemos. It is a tough job but we have been waiting for it. I will work with the rest in ensuring that the welfare of athletes, even from the far-flung areas is addressed. Athletics Kenya vice president Jinaro Kibet has been appointed to sit in the IAAF committee in charge of legislation in the transfer of allegiance by athletes.