President Uhuru Kenyatta and Cord leader Raila Odinga this Friday will hold parallel events in Western, considered an ODM bastion.The two are wooing the critical vote bloc that could decide the outcome of the 2017 presidential election.Uhuru last visited the region in November last year when he handed a charter to Kibabii University and commissioned the Chwele-Lwakhakha road in Bungoma county.He has twice cancelled visits to the vote-rich region after learning Raila had organised parallel meetings.They have recently engaged in a cat-and-mouse game about who visits first and gets an advantage.ODM has been hurt by a rebellion in Western but has regained ground.Raila will preside over his ODM s Western delegates conference in Masinde Muliro University. More than 5,000 delegates, including hopefuls, will attend. Raila last toured the region in July and September but cut the trips short to attend ODM s 10th anniversary celebrations in Mombasa on September 10.The ODM leader has intensified his campaign for next year s election and is trying to building a formidable network to dethrone Jubilee. ODM deputy party leader Wycliffe Oparanya yesterday said the meeting to be televised live brings together delegates from Bungoma, Kakamega, Busia, Vihiga and Trans Nzoia counties. He said aspirants for various seats will be taken through the party s nomination rules.Cord has said the region will remain one of its strongholds and has banked on the support it received in the past.It is touted the opposition will come together under the National Super Alliance. The Nasa idea is spearheaded by Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi. He has hinted he is in talks with Cord.On the other hand, Uhuru will preside over Kibabii University s first graduation ceremony tomorrow morning, before visiting Pan Paper Mills in Webuye in the afternoon.The president was expected to open the firm, but the investor has said he needs more time. Jubilee point man Ben Washiali said the President will then fly to Kakamega to meet leaders in the evening and spend the night there.On Friday, he will commission two water projects in Navakholo and Mumias subcounties in Kakamega county and another in Hamisi subcounty. Uhuru will wind up his tour on Friday evening by commissioning street lighting at Luanda market.Community to assess JubileeFormer Medical Services Minister Amukowa Anangwe said Uhuru s visit to Western is an opportunity for him to sell Jubilee s development agenda and appeal to the Luhya electorate, which is at a political crossroads. It s a chance for the Luhyas to engage the Jubilee leadership about pertinent political issues, including their expectations going forward, he told the Star yesterday on the phone. The general election is a few months away and it is imperative for the Luhya community to get to hear and assess the Jubilee view of them. The visit will be the first since the launch of the Jubilee Party on September 10. Uhuru s itinerary takes him to areas represented by Luhya leaders who joined Jubilee. Media analyst Martin Andati said the President will emphasise the revival of Pan Paper, the charter to Kibabii and continued support of Mumias Sugar Company.critical vote bloc The visit is of major political significance for the President because Jubilee views Western as a critical vote bloc that could help it get past the 50-percent-plus-one threshold to win in the first round in 2017 now that the opposition appears to be raiding its Rift Valley base, he said.Western is estimated to have three million voters out of which 1.6 million are in the area, while the rest are scattered countrywide. The bloc could determine the outcome of the presidential polls next year if it casts a unified vote.But former Minister and Luhya elders forum member Burudi Nabwera said little should be expected from the President since his administration has not fulfilled most of the pledges he made during campaigns.Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto promised to revive Mumias Sugar, tarmac the Ibokolo-Shianda-Malaha-Nambacha, Lurambi-Nambacha-Musikoma and Musikoma-Buyofu-Nambale and Turbo-Sikhendu roads. Tarmacking is yet to begin.