Olympic marathon champion Jemima Sumgong face two-time world champion Edna Kiplagat at the 15km Pfixx Solar Montferland Run in the Dutch City of S-Heerenberg today.Sumgong won this year s London Marathon in 2:22:58 and went on to take gold over the classic distance at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games. Earlier in the year, she posted a personal best of 1:06:58 in the half marathon.She will be making her debut in the 15km race in Montferland Run and organisers are hopeful that the 48:32 course record, set by Bezunesh Bekele in 2010, could be challenged.Kiplagat, who won back-to-back world titles (2011 and 2013), finished second at the Montferland Run in 2011. Although she missed out on selection for this year s Olympic Games, the 37-year-old has been in great form, finishing third at the Tokyo Marathon, second at the Chicago Marathon and setting a 10km PB of 31:06 in Boston.Elsewhere, IAAF President Sebastian Coe will be on site at the 14th annual Beirut Marathon, an IAAF Silver Label Road Race, on November 13 as a guest of the event organisers.He praised, in particular, the initiative of May El Khalil, who plotted the first Beirut Marathon in 2003 after a horrific accident left her unable to continue running. I am excited because it is a marathon that goes way, way beyond just the competition; either participation or elite, he said. Its very creation was borne of a pretty challenging time for May (El Khalil). It was while she was in a hospital bed that she came up with the idea. And with athletes from 85 different countries competing with a very important message that sport is one of the great drivers of peace and reconciliation this is clearly an event I would like to see, and, clearly an event that is built simply more than competitive sport. There is something in there for everyone, he added. You have got grandparents racing; you have 1km races, right up to the full distance and the opportunity for young people to understand the fun of participating in races like that. This hits a lot of very important things for us. This won t be Coe s first visit to Lebanon; several years ago when he made a political trip to the country. This time, however, it will be a trip which demonstrates his passion for the sport. He will undertake a busy schedule over the Beirut Marathon race weekend. But this is nothing he isn t used to. I have been with the Lebanon federation here in Qatar for the past couple of days; discussing the (IAAF) reform program, said Coe. We know how excited we both are that I will be there. It s a commitment I gave a couple of years ago. I am delighted that the diary has allowed us to do this. This current global trip has focused on IAAF reform which he summarises clearly. It s simple, he says. It s returning trust to the sport and to the organisation and primarily giving permission for the clean athletes to feel we are doing everything we possibly can to create a level playing field for their competitions. 