The 2017 Mombasa governor race is shaping into a struggle between the rich and the poor, Senator Hassan Omar has said.He said the rich want to maintain the status quo and continue creating policies that hurt the downtrodden while the poor want liberation and an opportunity to create wealth.Omar said he represents the poor as he is the only governor hopeful who is not a billionaire. Of the five aspirants, Omar and former Kisauni MP Ananiah Mwaboza are the only ones who are not millionaires.Incumbent Hassan Joho, Nyali MP Hezron Awiti, and Suleiman Shahbal are successful businessmen with millions of shillings worth of investment.Omar said the wealthy only want to be governors to protect their wealth and amass more. He spoke at Ziwa La Ng ombe after a cleanup organised by Ernest Arigi, a youth leader running for area MCA.It is time for the poor also to be given a chance to lead, the senator said. The 2017 election is a battle for the heart and soul of the poor people. There will only be two tribes; the rich and the poor, he said. Omar said his administration will ensure Sh100 billion is invested in Mombasa.He said Mombasa has not developed any policy to protect small-scale business people. Instead, the county, as many others, is striving to fleece the small-scale traders by taxing everything they have, even the chicken, thus creating more poverty, Omar said.The legislator said he will ensure small-scale traders who earn less than Sh50,000 a month are exempted from some taxes.This is designed to endear him to the majority of the more than 440,000 voters in Mombasa, who are in the middle and low class.Omar said the cost of doing business in Mombasa has increased tenfold and the resultant revenue is wasted through corruption and non-priority expenditure. You do not do business with the government by oppressing the mama mbogas and hawkers with heavy taxation, the senator said. Leaders, he said, must not only promise to create jobs but also give a plan on how the jobs will be created. Job creation does not mean hiring people in the county government. It means creating opportunities in both the public and private sectors, Omar said.He added that one cannot create jobs in any country without investments.Arigi said the politicians have given youth a raw deal. Youth are only used to create havoc in political rallies for as little as Sh200. Youth, we need to stand up and refuse to be misused, he said.Omar said since the inception of devolution, Mombasa has had no investment that can grow the economy and create jobs for the youth. Economic experts say a country can only grow when it expands its industrial base and improves infrastructure, he said.The senator said the experts have noted that Mombasa county needs an annual investment of Sh10-Sh12 billion to grow its economy. The first thing I will do is create an industrial park in Mwakirunge. We will invite investors in fisheries, assembly plants and other big projects, Omar said.He said Japanese want to invest in an assembly plant in Kenya and he will fight to have it in Mombasa county, close to the port.