WELL , if you are doubting that Kenya is being bled dry by graft cartels, then you don t have to doubt anymore. President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) yesterday was presented with evidence of how daring the graft cartels can get. This was after a paid classified was placed in the Daily Nation, asking contractors to join corruption cartels to win government tender. This was complete with a cell phone number. Join corruption cartels and win government tender without sweat, the advert read. Nation Media Group last evening apologised for the error. A head of a government parastatal is eyeing the Kigumo MP seat. This will certainly generate interest considering the campaign she is planning to roll out. Due to her many years of experience in government, especially in agriculture, her entry in the race is likely to create massive realignment in Kigumo and the larger Murang a county. The officer has been consulting with grassroots opinion leaders in Kigumo constituency.The seat is held by Jamleck Kamau, who has declared he wants to unseat Governor Mwangi Wairia. Corridors yesterday told you about a city building under construction at the junction of Kenyatta Avenue and Kimathi Street, in the space previously occupied by Nakumatt Downtown. There were allegations the pillars are weak. The investors behind the construction have rejected these allegation. They say the building is being constructed in accordance with legal requirements and has regularly been inspected by agencies involved in construction. If not, the construction would not have proceeded so far, they say. The investors say there are no bends in the building. Something funny is happening at the Treasury s Pension Department. Is CS Henry Rotich aware that taxpayers money could be illegally landing in the wrong pockets? Picture this: Some 69,956 pensioners and dependents files were showing the same date for pensioners dates of birth and dates of enrollment, respectively, in the last financial year. Out of this total, 48,195 files showed all dependents were born in 2000. Is this real or are ghost pensioners are being paid? Corridors promises to bring you more details on why there is a problem in this department. Why are City Hall officers harassing motorists outside Vision Plaza parking, but they do nothing about the flooding? Witnesses say when it rains, it is impossible to get to your car as the area gets completely flooded. However, the City Hall officers are said to take every opportunity to clamp the vehicles. The victims are asking Governor Evans Kidero to intervene.