Everything explaining how the unlikely candidate Donald Trump beat favourite Hillary Clinton has probably been said. However, there is too much political correctness in explaining away the explosion of white voters determined to seize power, and clean the USA of the undesirables . One such undesirable is an apparition in President Barack Obama. What we fear to say is that in Trump, white America s racism has spoken.Trump stands for and was the triumph card in the reincarnation of the Jim Crow racial laws. The lowly whites who felt the system denied them entitlement revolted. According to the Ferris State University Museum, Jim Crow is the name of the racial caste system which operated in the US between 1877 and the mid-1960s. It was a rigid way of life that enforced racial segregation in the Southern US. A system where Christian theologians taught that whites were the Chosen people, blacks were cursed to be servants, and that God supported racial segregation.The election of Obama as the first black US President in 2008 witnessed the rise of white supremacist nationalism, expressed in the the Republican Party conservative right-wing, evangelicals and Tea Party political upsurge. President Obama became the object of hate though its victims included whites such as the Clinton political dynasty. Obama was seen as an aberration foisted on whites, by traitors such as Clinton.The battles House Speaker Newt Gingrich waged against Bill Clinton s presidency were inherited by a Republican controlled Congress under Obama. White America never forgave Clinton for the blot of the Monica Lewinsky affair. To this puritan political fringe in America, Hillary was the scapegoat, punished for perceived transgressions against white superiority. Trump embodied that expression. Like pro-segregation politicians of yore who gave eloquent speeches on the great danger of integration, Trump exploits fear of the mongrelisation of the white race in his wall against and expulsion of immigrants. The wall isn t just a physical barrier with Mexico: It comes with tighter immigration laws and expulsions of non-whites. It is a symbolic measure born of the Jim Crow belief that sexual relations between blacks and whites would produce a mongrel race which would destroy America. It s unrealistic to expect that building a wall and expelling undesirables will preserve white domination. Current demographics show whites are a minority against the feared mongrel race . Trump didn t just happen. His belief to keep America pure of contamination showed in his 2011 campaign that Obama wasn t born in America and the presidency was, therefore, held by an imposter. Neither is the rise of white ethnic nationalism a preserve of the US. Europe has its share of raciallytinged nationalistic parties. The same forces that elevated Trump in America fueled the Brexit vote and are propelling the populist Marine Le Pen in France. If the nationalists haven t yet seized power in Europe, they are striving to. Russia s Vladimir Putin is backing right-wing parties throughout Europe. Nationalists are gaining against liberals. Underwriting this trend is the immigration issue. When the Labour Party was deposed by the Conservative Party, social democrat David Cameron became Prime Minister. Brexit became his Waterloo and he was replaced by a conservative, Theresa May. In Germany, Chancellor Angela Merkel, a liberal, is under pressure from ther hard-right Alternative for Germany Party s string of victories in elections. Trump admires Putin and it s anyone s guess whom he would back in Kenya in 2017.