Kenya's most talked about female songstress, Akothee was moved by the overwhelming support she received at her homecoming events this past weekend.Akothee jetted back into the country on Saturday afternoon after a victorious stint in the United States Of America where she bagged two prestigious awards.The Yuko Moyoni hitmaker was recognised for her role in the Kenyan and East African music industry at the African Muzik Magazine Awards (AFRIMMA), an outfit that prides itself as the sole award ceremony in Diaspora that caters to all musical genres.The singer who has crossed borders and collaborated with the best from Africa was awarded the gong for Best Female Artiste in East Africa. Akothee was in a category together with East African stars like Victoria Kimani and Vanessa Mdee.After this win, Akothee was again awarded as the Best Female Artiste at the just concluded African Entertainment Awards USA. The awards uses entertainment as a platform, to showcase an Africa that is united, self-sufficient, and willing and able to evoke social change that matters most in the communities of Africans and Africans in the Diaspora world-wide.The Give It To Me hitmaker arrived at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport at 2pm on Saturday, 29 October where she was received by her loyal fans.During both award ceremonies, Akothee delivered an electrifying performance that proved that indeed, she is a top artiste to reckon with.She drove off in a convoy that included a customized pearl white limousine with number plates reading Akothee in the front and Madam Boss at the rear. Hiring it cost them Sh300,000. I broke down in tears when I saw my fans, family and woman group come to receive me at the airport, Akothee said, I am lucky to have loyal fans and such a supportive family. I'm deeply touched. I couldn't believe that the woman's group I'm supporting in the village made it to receive me. She continued, I don't have much but the little I have, I give to the woman's group to carry out their projects. My fianc had offered to fly me in first class but I told him I need the money to do a project for a Woman's group in Migori County and he obliged me. The convoy left JKIA for Ranalo's in town where she bought her fans a surprise lunch to thank them for their unwavering support.In the evening, Akothee hosted an exclusive black and white red red carpet cocktail party at Sankara from 6pm. In attendance was her father a former D.O Joshua Owino Kokeyo and her mother, Migori MCA Hon. Monica Yunita Kokeyo who will also be contesting for the same seat in 2017.They were joined by other celebrities like comedian Owago Onyiro and afro pop all male group H_art The Band among others.The management organised a very expensive homecoming which together with lunch, hiring a limo, customizing it, booking a five star hotel for the cocktail and flying in the family for the festivities cost a cool Sh2 million.Akothee's dresses the one she wore when on arrival at JKIA and the red dress for the cocktail - cost 5,000 swiss francs, it was a gift from her fianc , the manager Nelly Oaks added, Bringing the total cost of the homecoming to Sh2.5 million. 