Two-time New York marathon champion Jelena Prokopcuka and world record holder Paula Radcliffee have tipped Kenya s Mary Keittany to win her third title in this year s edition on Sunday.Keittany is seeking to share a slice of history with the nine-time champion Grete Waitz from Norway and of Radclifee. It is so rare to win the three times (or more) that only two female runners in 44 years have done it.Prokopcuka, a four-time Olympian and twice runner-up in Boston from Latvia said: Mary Keitany is a very clever runner even though at first, she made mistakes during the race. She was very aggressive and didn t think about her real possibility of winning. Now she s more calm, Prokopcuka said. I think she can do it this year. I think she has a very good chance, said Radcliffe, who won New York in 2004, 2007 and 2008. She hasn t raced much, but when she has, it has been very good. The competition is tough but by no means unbeatable for her. If she has finished her preparations well, I expect her to give it a very good defense. She just needs to run to her own strengths, Radcliffe said. I don t think she needs advice from me. New York is a very difficult marathon where any small tactical mistake costs you much more than in other big marathons, said Keitany s Italian coach Gabriele Nicola.What separates Keitany from other African runners, he said, is the eyes of the tiger, the capacity to kill with (her) personality the competitors during a race. She is not afraid of anybody a quality very difficult to find. In the last two New York victories, she learned to use her killer instinct in the right moment to close the game. I hope she will do it, Nicola said and not merely to salvage the season. Most important, it will give her the full motivation to continue to train at a high level for the future. This year, I think I ve trained well and I m ready to meet with my colleagues, Keitany said, referring to the 33 other women in the elite field, only two of whom like Keitany have run a marathon faster than 2 hours, 20 minutes. I don t fear anything, Keitany said. Somebody may be just as strong, but I never mind. We will do the running, and the best one will win. That s my motto. If it s me, OK. If it s the other one, OK. But the 34-year-old mother of two is an exceptionally fierce competitor, and this year, the stakes are high.In April, three days after a stomach illness, Keitany finished a dismal ninth after taking a hard fall on the course. She was subsequently left off the Olympic team for Rio despite placing fourth in the games four years earlier and winning the London Marathon in 2012 for the second straight year with a time of 2:18:37, which makes her the second-fastest female marathoner in history behind Radcliffe.Yet the disappointment only fueled her. In June, she began training for New York. In July, she flew to the U.S. and broke the course record at the (a seven-mile race). In August, one day after the Rio opening ceremony, she smashed the women s course record at the Beach to Beacon 10K in Maine. I don t want to talk about that; I don t want to talk about Rio, Keitany said from Iten, where she was training at altitudes of roughly 7,800 feet.On the flip side, missing Rio may play to Keitany s advantage.