It is the responsibility of every state to protect its sovereign national interest. The announcement by US President-elect Donald Trump that he will soon deport up to three million illegal immigrants, in my view, falls within this purview that is, as long as it furthers US national security interests.The US is the global power. It is also a respected member of the United Nations. Being a member of the UN comes with responsibility: The responsibility for both civic and political rights, human rights, etc.Most importantly, the world has become a global village. This means that whatever President Trump does must meet the test of time and be consistent with UN humanitarian provisions and traditions, norms and rules domesticated in the US codes.I am of the view that Trump s announcement falls within the purview of a general statement that falls short of specifics.There are genuine refugees in the US; there are economic refugees; students with expired visas. It would be in the interest of the US to qualify the exact meaning of the President elect s administrative fiat. What the world is being treated to is a blanket use of the words illegal immigrants without qualification of exactly what this means.In any case, Kenya in its own way has a host of illegal immigrants.This makes the situation in the US anything but unique and it does not warrant the kind of excitement it has attracted.True, the deportation of immigrants is the most extreme of the incoming administration s stated objectives. But just how it will be carried out is hard to tell. How the US government finally actualises this proposal into policy is interesting and the world must wait to see how it will be done. There is a possibility that its implementation could create chaos and affect the US s standing as a global power.It is incumbent upon the US government to come clean on this confusing issue. This inward looking policy is already affecting the US s image globally and unless addressed could soon affect the US as a global power. If President Trump goes ahead and implements the mass deportations, the US will become just like any other country and it may not survive as the global superpower.In my view, this was an electioneering statement from Candidate Trump, but he repeated it on Sunday as President-elect. Keynan is the Eldas MP and a member of the Defence and Foreign Relations Committee of the National Assembly.