Harambee Stars beat a struggling Liberia Lone Stars 1-0 to extend their unbeaten run to eight matches since head coach Stanley Okumbi took charge of the national side in February.Paul Were s strike in the 53rd minute delivered the much needed win for Kenya. Harambee Stars, however missed numerous chances.Michael Olunga was the first culprit as his shot was blocked by Liberia s goalkeeper Tommy Songos in the box. Olunga had the option of passing the ball but chose to shoot straight into the waiting arms of the custodian.The first half witnessed six shots on target and numerous lost chances as Harambee Stars dominated the game right from kick off. Unfortunately,they failed to translate their dominance into goals.The second half was action-paced as Stars opened the game with the ball flowing freely.Okumbi then made three substitutions, bring in Anthony Akumu, Simon Mbugua, Eric Ouma for captain Victor Wanyama, Joakins Atudo and Ayub Timbe.The changes once again brought the match to life as Stars continued to dominate. At this point the pressure was evidently on the visitors but the Lone Stars reverted to defensive play.Even though harambee Stars forward didn t seem to get their target.The win boosts Kenya s chances of rising on the Fifa ranking which will be released on November 24. Kenya are currently ranked 85th in the world while Liberia are position 104.Speaking after the game, head coach Stanley Okumbi praised his charges despite the narrow win. It feels good to win at home in front of our fans. The game started slowly but we had to make changes after the first half. We had many chances but managed to convert one, said OKumbi. The fact that we had many chances to score means that we were thorough at attacking as well as in defence and our visitors failed to get a shot on goal. We look forward to other changes in the team as we go forward as well as working on our finishing, he said The win over the visiting Lone Stars, comes barely two days afterHarambee Stars sank visiting Mozambique 1-0 at the same venue.