You may not believe it but Donald Trump has been elected by the people of the US as their president. The margin, of course, was rather narrow, but it was decisive, with no doubt in people s minds that Trump deserved the win which Hillary Clinton graciously conceded when the figures pointed only to one way: a Donald Trump victory. But how and why did Trump win?Almost all the opinion polls, including that of the CNN up to the last minute, had predicted a Clinton victory. Leading liberal newspapers, the Washington Post and the New York Times included, had warned Americans against electing Trump. It cannot be said that people did not listen since close to 48% of the American population voted for Clinton who proceeded to lose to Trump by only 1 million popular votes. There is therefore still a high likelihood that Clinton would have won. But what went wrong? In order to understand why Trump won we must first of all unearth what went wrong with would-be Clinton voters. Did some of them fail to leave their homes or their work to go and vote? Were some Bernie Sanders supporters so disgusted with the Washington establishment that they crossed over to vote for the anti-establishment revolution now championed by Donald Trump?Let us look at the stay home lot. There is substantial evidence that a good number of African-Americans and Latinos stayed at home and did not vote. An earlier interview of the African American residents of the ninth ward in New Orleans revealed that the majority had no intention of voting. Their main argument being that it did not make any difference to them which one of the two candidates occupied the White House. They had, of course, voted for Obama twice because he had done some unique things which helped the underdogs in society, e.g. Obamacare. Likewise, some Latino population in Florida could have voted with their feet by staying at home, not to protest against Clinton, but against their own Republican party following derogatory remarks that Trump made in reference to their colleagues from Mexico. One would have thought that rather than stay at home they should have instead voted for Clinton. Trump still went ahead to take Florida with a narrow lead.On July 25th this year, the Washington Post carried an article by Chris Cillizza entitled Bernie Sanders started a political revolution. Now he can t stop it. When Sanders told the crowd at a rally in Philadelphia that we have got to defeat Donald Trump, the crowd cheered him wildly. But when he went ahead to tell the people we have got elect Hillary Clinton he was literally shouted down by the Philadelphia crowd. Sanders was at a loss. Here he was telling his most loyal supporters to vote for the Democratic Party candidate but they would not listen to him. They shouted in support of him and not Clinton. They wanted a revolution; a revolution that can throw away the indifference of Washington and bring back the government of the US to the people at the grassroots , whatever that meant.These are the people who eventually turned up to vote for Trump on polling day as an alternative revolutionary to Sanders, in fact a substitute in a Republican garb. Bernie or bust, they wrote on their t-shirts, and the bust threw them right into the hands of Trump. The same phenomenon must have happened elsewhere where college educated middle class whites, expected to vote for Clinton, actually turned up to take Trump to the White House.But why did the opinion polls get it so wrong? I have a theory, and this can apply to the Brexit as well. Trump designed a campaign strategy aimed at appealing essentially to the voters emotions and fears. He did not bother to engage the public with complicated policy issues and debates. Secondly he made them suspect, doubt and even deride anything establishment oriented, including the press and the presidential debates. All these were enemies of the people who had been neglected for too long, despised for too long and exploited for too long. Time had come to rebel and rely on ourselves, our power to change things our own way with Trump as the only person with the secret wand of change because he was brave enough to speak the truth. The truth was that jobs had been taken away to foreign lands by selfish companies supported by Washington. Lazy Mexicans had come to America to benefit from social welfare which hard working Americans paid for by their taxes, thanks to Washington. These are things the people need not have shared with pollsters which they regarded, in any case, as tools employed by the establishment to get their own people in power. I suspect these people either cynically told the pollsters what they wanted to hear, or simply were never reached by the questioners.But let us not forget that the US is still a relatively conservative society, particularly in the rural areas and in the suburbs. These are people who are quietly and, quite often, politely sexist and racist. The revelation that Trump had a habit of misbehaving with women angered the liberal middle and upper class Americans who were going to vote for Clinton anyway. It hardly made a dent on the core constituency of Trump. So Trump was no loser in that episode. Clinton, however, as often as Trump attacked her integrity, so did she lose some of her liberal supporters, some of whom might easily have decided to stay at home rather than vote for either candidate. Liberals are like that; they easily recede into their individual shells and envelop themselves into inactive self righteous aloofness.In the final analysis, the fact that Hillary Clinton was the wife of Bill Clinton, and Bill had been President of the US, could have been a liability to Hillary. Again, among conservative Americans. given the anti-establishment rhetoric, and the fact that Trump dwelt on the two issues of integrity and the tyranny of Washington , a passion was created among Trump s followers that made it almost a spiritual crusade to vote the devil out. That appeal to the heart and not the head did wonders in neighbourhoods which were regarded as democratic leaning but which switched over in a spiritual crusade to vote for Trump. How long the emotions will hold them under the power of Trump depends very much on what he will do while in office. But given his victory speech, Trump coms out as an accomplished actor who may sail through all kinds of difficult situations by persuasive oratory and drama. But will all this charm bring back the automobile industries in Detroit and give jobs back to the voters in Michigan? How many new roads is Trump likely to build or renovate to create jobs? We await his performance in the next four years domiciled in the Washington he has so much derided.