NAME: Ian Scott Murangiri MicheniSTAGE NAME: Deejay ScottPROFESSION: Party DJ working with Partyville Kenya.Growing up, my parents have always taught me order. On my first day in school, that was at St. Peters and Paul School in Embu, the first thing we were taught was order where we were taught to arrange slippers depending on the colors that they were. Right now I am perusing a degree in Civil Engineering which requires order and still am djing which also needs order. A quote that I love by Gustave Flaubert says Be regular and orderly in your life like a bourgeois, so that you may be violent and original in your work. WEEKDAYS0530hrs-1400hrs I usually wake up at 05:30 a.m. My preliminary activity is saying a quick prayer, before preparing for school. I leave for school at about 6:30 a.m. and then head to Technical University of Kenya (TUK), where I am pursuing a bachelor's degree in Civil Engineering. My classes at TUK begin at 7:00 a.m. so I am usually in school up to around 2.00p.m.1430hours-1900hrs I use these hours to take my quick lunch on some days, while I list down my plan of the afternoon. On most afternoons I'm usually perfecting my skills on the decks or record my weekly short mixes for my fans. In the instances when I'm not doing this, I'm pitching proposals for gigs at various venues around the city. Deejays do proper tarmacking by the way; it is not a smooth sail.1900hrs-0000hrs I work on my assignments from school, finishing up papers and catching up on the day s academic work. Being an artist, I also work on graphic design orders that I do on the side. I also spend this time exploring, to discover new music. I usually retire at around midnight on a normal day.WEEKENDS On the days that I'm not performing, I travel to my upcountry home in Chuka, meet up with my parents and share matters of inspiration from my supportive parents. On other days I will just hang out with my friends as they build so many aspects of my life apart from the common social support. During the weekends I also take time out to do more research on music and attend fellow deejays parties as I benchmark and network.