DP William Ruto has said no one owes him a &quot;debt&quot; for teaming up with President Uhuru Kenyatta to form the Jubilee government. The Deputy President responded on Sunday to declarations by Central MPs that residents will back him in his 2022 race for the presidency in return for the support Uhuru received three years ago. Ruto&nbsp; told Jubilee supporters to concentrate on the 2017 general election and ensure party wins more than 70 percent of the votes. &ldquo;The important thing for us is to win the election,&rdquo; he said&nbsp;at a church function in Nairobi&rsquo;s Zimmerman estate on Sunday,&nbsp;and added that Kenyans only owe each other unity and friendship. &ldquo;It is not you who owes me a debt. It is all of us Kenyans who owe each other the debt of friendship, unity and brotherhood.&quot; He said God will decide the 2022 poll and noted that&nbsp;his ambition should not derail supports from the party&#39;s goal of a landslide victory. Read: Raila promises Ruto 2022 backing if Kalenjins support him in 2017Also read: Uhuru settled on Ruto as 2022 successor - State HouseNoting he was certain about a Jubilee victory next year, Ruto asked aspirants for various seats not to antagonise each other.&ldquo;What we want is a united and prosperous Kenya,&rdquo; he said and assured a free and fair nominations process conducted by the IEBC.The DP added that the Jubilee government and its supporters are proud of the development achieved since 2013. &ldquo;The work we have done as Jubilee is work we are proud of and we are focused on delivering on the agreement we have with Kenyans based on the Jubilee manifesto,&rdquo; he said.Some of the MPs who spoke at the event and promised support for the DP in 2022 included Kimani Ichung&rsquo;wa (Kikuyu), Esther Gathogo (Ruiru), John Njoroge (Kasarani), Mathenge Ndiritu (Gilgil) and Mburu Kahangara (Lari). Others were John Kiragu (Limuru), Rachel Shebesh (Nairobi woman representative), Maina Kamanda (Starehe) and Dennis Waweru (Dagoreti South), and Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko. The MPs said they will vigorously campaign for Jubilee to win the presidency and other seats.&ldquo;We are behind you. It is not just the politics; we believe in you,&rdquo; said Kiragu.The Gilgil Member of Parliament assured Ruto of overwhelming support in 2022.Kahangara asked him to&nbsp;ignore those engaging in propaganda and focus on delivering Jubilee&#39;s&nbsp;promise to Kenyans. The Kasarani MP said: &ldquo;We like the commitment you have for this nation. No one should tell you any different.&quot;The DP and the leaders spoke after attending a service at Presbyterian Church of East Africa Zimmerman Parish. PCEA s ecretary general Peter Kania cautioned the opposition against engaging in protests that will hurt the country. Read: Raila coalition calls mega demo targeting 1 million Kenyans over Sh5b health scam &nbsp;