KAKAMEGA Senator Boni Khalwale s (pictured) persistent demand that Cord leader Raila Odinga should come out and condemn corruption in his coalition s counties is raising eyebrows among some opposition legislators. Word has it that the MPs are suspecting a plot by Khalwale and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang ula to leave Cord before the general election. The MPs are also suspecting a well-schemed fallout by Wetang ula in the event the anticipated National Super Alliance allows Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi and his erstwhile friend Raila Odinga to reunite to remove Jubilee from power. Our mole tells Corridors Khalwale and his party leader s plot will be known in broad daylight because the writing is already on the wall. WHY is the National Assembly s Labour committee taking so long to table the Rio Olympics fiasco report? This is the question many MPs, including committee members, are seeking answers to. Some MPs on the relevant committee are unhappy with the failure to table the report. It was to be tabled early last month, after Parliament resumed from the September recess. An MP was heard telling a colleague to forget about the report, because it will not be tabled. The two legislators, however, demanded an explanation from one of their colleagues they thought would know why the report is not yet before the House. No explanation has been forthcoming so far.IF you thought governors are the only ones with accountability issues in the devolved units, think again. The county assemblies are also competing to take the top slot in questionable expenditure of hard-earned taxpayers money. Take, for instance, the Kiambu assembly. Well, the MCAs were paid mileage allowance totalling Sh3.6 million. However, as other Kenyans struggle to pay taxes, the MCAs allowance was intact, not taxed at all. To add insult to injury, there was no evidence the MCAs travelled to their respective wards to justify the expenditure.HELPLESS Bunge canteen staff feel frustrated and intimidated by unbecoming behaviour of their manager. The staff who provide catering services to Parliament employees and MPs are being victimised and threatened with the sack for no reason by the manager. The manager is said to have fallen out with his predecessor, who was forced to take early retirement with a peanuts send-off package. He is said to harass the staff and tell them they will be relieved of their duties and no action will be taken against him. The staff are appealing to the Parliamentary Service Commission officer in charge of Staff Welfare and Eldas MP Adan Keynan to intervene.