During the 2013 campaigns, Jubilee developed an ambitious manifesto promising a lot to Kenyans, foremost being zero tolerance for corruption .Even after getting to power, President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto have on several occasions been quoted reciting the same promise even as corruption scandals, some directly linked to their close allies and relatives, ravage the country. Graft is escalating to crisis levels. What a crude irony!Their promised Zero tolerance for corruption , it appears, was deliberate campaign trickery to hoodwink unsuspecting Kenyans to support and vote for them. If getting votes through trickery were to be equated to acquiring goods by false pretences and the applicable laws applied appropriately, this regime stands accused of getting to power fraudulently.Today, the presidency, in a major campaign led by the Deputy President, is all out to silence the anti-corruption crusaders while protecting the real Lords of Corruption. Woe unto you if you dare identify and speak out against graft and, or any mistake or crime that the Jubilee government makes. If you happen to name the culprits, the establishment quickly unleashes its political functionaries to attack you, call you names and label you all the dirty nicknames to play you against the public.This is why Cord leader Raila Odinga, who whistle-blew and condemned scandals ranging from the Hustler s Jet, the standard gauge railway s inflated costs, the Eurobond, the National Youth Service scam, the Rio Olympics fiasco, the laptops to tablets switch ripoff, ChickenGate, the Northern Collector Tunnel, the Itare Dam project to ethnic appointments to senior public service positions and others have been profiled and labelled enemies of the state. Yet they deserve to be awarded for helping the country.If Jubilee were led by patriotic leaders, these newly labelled enemies would be acknowledged as true partners in development. Instead, they have declared war on leaders and citizens campaigning to correct what is going wrong. The DP has now made it his daily song to demonise the anti-corruption admonitions made by Raila and other outspoken opposition leaders. In fact, he has scaled his criticism up by labelling these leaders anti-development Lords of Poverty and champions of societal decay. Nothing can be farther from the truth.If Ruto and other Jubilee stalwarts were genuine about good governance, accountability and zero tolerance for corruption, they should consider all whistleblowers as pro-development and work together with them for the good of all Kenyans.In his latest tirade against the opposition, the Deputy President told Kenyans to ignore whistleblowers and reject the opposition because they hate and are fighting government projects that will benefit the people . He urged them to reelect them next year.Ironically, he is rubbishing the opposition at a time when the NYS scandal they first denied existed has unravelled so much that Ruto himself is belatedly admitting it openly and apportioning blame after the list of culprits was stretched to his doorstep.He now says former Devolution CS Anne Waiguru is culpable and should be prosecuted and jailed. On her part, Waiguru, who initially denied money had been stolen at the NYS, has made an about-turn and admitted there was a well-orchestrated plan to steal from the public coffers. She even named the DP s close aides and allies as culprits. She now wants them prosecuted and jailed. Who said there is no honour amongst thieves? Clearly, Jubilee has saddled Kenya with a criminal enterprise for a government. The country is bleeding from all its openings due to corruption, theft, embezzlement, mismanagement, misappropriation of public resources and incompetence.