The High Court will on January 18 rule on whether the law firm of Ahmednassir Abdullahi will cease acting for Imperial Bank former directors in the Sh45 billion fraud case. Coulson Harney Advocates and Njoroge Nani Mungai of Muriu Mungai will also know their fate on the said date.Parties in the case made their final submissions yesterday. Lawyer Philip Murgor, who is acting for Imperial Bank, maintained the three law firms should be disqualified. Murgor told Commercial Judge Francis Tuiyott that the law firm of Ahmednassir was listed as a legal adviser in the period the fraud allegedly took place. He argued that in so far as the three law firms were legal advisers during the period in question, they could consciously or involuntarily use the information they acquired. The court must regulate the conduct of a court officer. Ahmednassir s representation in this case is a classic example of acute professional embarrassment, Murgor said. The three law firms have, however, urged the court to dismiss the said application requiring their recusal from the case. They told the court that Murgor failed to prove their firms' possible conflict of interest. Lawyer Ahmednassir told the court that for a lawyer to be disqualified, he must be in possession of confidential information from the other party, and have a reasonable apprehension from the party that the information is likely to be leaked. Murgor has failed to show that my firm labours under a conflict of interest so as to have us disqualified from the case, Ahmednassir said.Coulson and Harney told the court that the application filed by Murgor has no merit for the reason that their law firm is not in any way conflicted in the matter.In a sworn affidavit, Jonathan Stewart Coulson says during his involvement on the work done by his firm in relation to the restructuring of IBL, there was no confidential or highly sensitive information of IBL that was given to his firm.Stewart said that the restructuring work undertaken by Coulson Harney had nothing to do with IBLS s lending or deposit taking operations or duties an obligations of its directors.The present suit he said is premised on entirely different issues and do not arise from the restructuring transaction undertaken by the firm on behalf of IBL. At no time has Coulson Harney been intimately involved in the legal and business affairs of the Bank. IBL has failed to demonstrate any conflict of interest by Coulson Harney and the fact that Coulson may be on the panel of advocates for the bank does not contribute to a conflict of interest as claimed, said Stewart.The firm of Ahmednassir Abdikadir and Company advocates is currently on record for the Estate of Abdulmalek JanMohamed and Janco Investments Limited. Coulson Harney Advocates and Njoroge Nani Mungai of Muriu Mungai are on record for 10 former directors of the bank.Murgor filed the application seeking disqualification of the three firms two weeks ago. He claimed that that the firm of Coulson Harney Advocates is conflicted as it has been deeply involved in Imperial banks restructuring and cannot therefore act for the directors of IBL.