The Kikuyu Council of Elders has urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to stop saying away from the people, return to his father s house in Gatundu and start listening. Uhuru s loss [in the election] would be tantamount to the community becoming naked, Kikuyu Council of Elders national chairman Wachira wa Kiago said on Saturday.The President should return to his father s thingira [house], where elders from all the Kenyan communities can visit him in an environment where he is not confined and restricted by diaries , he said. Kiago spoke during the first Nyandarua Cultural and Tourism in Ol Kalou Catholic grounds. There we can tell him what Kenya needs, he said. Let him stop staying away from the people. We need him at a place where we can visit, an elder s homestead; where women can sing for him; where our children can visit. At the same event Kiago urged the Kikuyu community to respect elected leaders and allow them to serve in a peaceful environment.It is wrong to wage war against the leaders, to the detriment of development, he said. We lag behind when we encourage these fights, he said.The event attracted participants from the five counties of former Central province an. representatives from Nakuru, Laikipia, Baringo and Trans Nzoia.Nyandarua Governor Daniel Waithaka was installed as a Kikuyu elder. We want to warn all the Agikuyu wherever they are against fighting those in leadership. It does not augur well for our community, Kiago said.He said while some people have trained their guns on Uhuru, others pledge to give governors sleepless nights so they do not have time to serve their people.We won t be divided Kiago said the time for politics is yet to come and residents and aspirants must support governors so they can deliver on their pledges. Squabbles hurt Uhuru s reelection chances, he said. Here, you fight. Go to Kiambu, Kabogo is being fought. Mwangi Wairia is being vigorously fought. We know some of those fighting the leaders have been sent to cause fragmentation so we don t unite as a community, he said.Kiago told governor hopefuls to know that leaders are anointed by God and urged them to wait their turn.