Agriculture-rich Uasin Gishu county aims to implement a 24-hour economy in parts of Eldoret town in partnership with the national government. County commissioner Abdi Hassan says security is being beefed up to facilitate trade on three streets in the town famous for world-beating athletes. Hassan said improved lighting at night will support trade. Eight counties in the food-basket region of North Rift are concluding an agreement to operationalise the North Rift Economic bloc, with Eldoret as the hub. The plan targets joint investments valued at more than Sh200 billion in the counties. Trade representatives from the eight counties have finalised formulating the NOREB policy, work plan, and legal document to provide guidelines on the governance and administration of the economic bloc. Top organs of the bloc have now been created, and will include the governor s summit, inter-county economic council, technical committee, secretariat and sector technical sub committees. We have actually finalised the finer details of the bloc and we are now inching closing to go full scale with our operations as a bloc, Uasin Gishu Trade executive Phillip Melly said. He said the key governing organs created will ensure successful implementation of objectives. The region has acquired new energy with which the bloc can move its potential and empower itself economically. The bloc is expected to offer favourable opportunities for investors seeking to invest in the region, Melly said.Nandi county chief officer of Trade Jacob Sisey said governors are committed to operationalise NOREB. The eight governors pushing for the formation of the bloc include Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu), Cleophas Lagat (Nandi), Patrick Khaemba (Trans Nzoia), Simon Kachapin (West Pokot), Josphat Nanok (Turkana) , Benjamin Cheboi (Baringo) and Moses Kasaine of Samburu. Mandago is currently the interim chairman of the bloc and says they are progressing well with plans to launch the bloc soon. We have already mapped out the investments we target to undertake jointly so that we tap on the economies of scale and ensure the projects help to transform economies in the region , said Mandago. The projects targeted are in the agriculture, tourism, energy and infrastructure sectors. The joint investments will ensure effective utilization of resources to reduce waste and duplication. The Eldoret International Airport is one of the key pillars that will be used to develop agriculture especially fresh produce for export. The governors will meet to approve the policy and work plan. Secretary General of the County Assemblies Forum Albert Kochei says the governors must ensure all plans and expenditures on the formation of the bloc are approved by all county assemblies in the region. The assemblies must also discus and approve the legal framework for the bloc , said Kochei.