National Assembly Deputy Speaker Joyce Laboso and West Pokot Governor Simon Kachapin are the only politicians from the Rift Valley in the recently named 61-member team who will steer the 2017 Jubilee campaigns. Immediately the list was released, there was hue and cry from various counties in the region over the manner in which the Jubilee Party mandarins selected the key campaigners.The cries are yet to die down.Chief among the complains are that JP ignored its political strongholds such as Uasin Gishu, Kericho, Baringo, Elgeyo Marakwet and Nandi counties in naming the team.Jubilee s decision not to appoint anyone from these counties is informed by a blind political strategy that believes that the only headache in the Rift Valley facing JP reelection lies in Bomet and West Pokot counties. This is not true. Baringo, Elgeyo Marakwet, Kericho, Uasin Gishu and Nandi counties are experiencing political rebirths thanks to the dissolution of URP and the unfulfilled promises coupled with farmers tribulations. Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto has been a persistent thorn inJubilee s flesh since 2014 and that s why Laboso is on top of the list to check-mate him. But will she?The Deputy Speaker is DP s blue-eyed girl wrongly believed to be holding the magical hat that will vanish JP s problems in Bomet and beyond. The true picture is different. Laboso only hold sway in Sotik constituency where she was elected after her sister Lorna Laboso, who was the MP for the area, died tragically in a plane crash in 2008. The support she enjoyed previously is waning due to her association with the Deputy President, whose following has hit rock-bottom due to obvious reasons. The Deputy Speaker s marriage in Luoland has become a political issue. Bomet voters argue that they did her a favour by electing her as Sotik MP but now that she wants to be the ruler of the county, she is stretching her luck. Lorna was a single mother. Sotik voters treated her as their own.Laboso is aware of this and has more than once pleaded with the voters not to use her marriage to a Luo as a reason not to elect her governor.Rutto has been on the receiving end of Jubilee s dirty games since he told off the ruling coalition for denying counties funding.The Bomet county chief is a strong critic of Deputy President William Ruto. He is not relenting. When plans to dissolve the two coalition parties URP and TNA were underway, Governor Rutto was against it. When his voice was ignored, he went ahead and formed his own party -- Chama Cha Mashinani whose ideals are grounded on more funding to devolved units.The CCM party is gaining traction in the South Rift and this is not good news for JP. She will be JP Waterloo. The Sotik MP is assigned to wrestle Bomet from Rutto s grip. In fact, she has started her work. Her first assignment resulted in Rutto suffering injuries after a police officer lobbed a teargas canister on him two weeks ago after the duo s followers clashed in the county during a football match. Jubilee is misguided in believing Laboso is the only answer to Rutto in Bomet. It is unaware that the county is now under CCM s spell until further notice. She has no political influence in the rest of the Rift Valley, and it would be an uphill task for her to convince voters to vote for JP next year.Governor Kachapin has a similar role to play in West Pokot county where Kanu crowing day and night to the chagrin of JP. He won the governor seat on the Kanu ticket in 2013 but has since ditched it for JP. It will be a herculean task for the Kachapin to sway the winds to JP. Kanu man Senator John Lonyangapuo is more influential than Kachapin, who is seen as a man without a stand.Jubilee is still basing its mathematics on 2013 elections forgetting things have changed so much that almost 67 per cent of the county has left it largely because of corruption and exclusion from national development projects.