About two weeks ago, a controversial list containing names of senior public servants from the Kalenjin community who had been expelled from the corridors of power over the past two years was widely circulated on social media. The suggestion here was that the Kalenjin community had been ill-used by the very government in which it was supposedly a "50-50 shareholder".This incident is emblematic of something fairly common in Kenyan politics: That whether a man is guilty of wrongdoing or completely innocent, those who share an ancestral village with him can be relied on to rush to his defence, when he falls from grace. The implicit threat is that if nothing is done to restore their son to glory, then this humiliation will be answered with a fierce rejection of the governing political coalition, come the next election.This is a phenomenon which has been with us for many years now, leading to an attempt to address it through the regional balancing policy. Now, it is easy enough to dismiss this as the regressive type of politics, which is responsible for holding the country back. After all, if a Kenyan President is to be obliged to play an unending game of musical chairs with regional power barons and their proteges, then how can he be expected to appoint competent people to high office?Well the answer to this is that it may well be only in the private sector, where we can prioritise managerial efficiency above all else. In the public sector, there will invariably be all kinds of considerations, which have to weigh on the minds of the President and his men. Presidents, after all, do have to worry about reelection.However, within a system in which regional sentiments have to be appeased, what will often matter most is who you know, rather than what you are entitled to under the law.Up to just a few years ago, for example, ordinary Kenyans knew there were only two ways to reliably get a passport: Either you had to know someone at the Immigration Department or you had to find a way to bribe someone who worked there. The alternative was to find yourself caught in a bureaucratic maze in which the file which had your application documents got lost .But there is real danger in perpetuating this system of government technically known as "clientelism". If everything of importance depends on village-centric networks, it can easily lead to a situation where purely local grievances are militarised in direct opposition to the state.An extreme form of this was seen in Iraq, with the fall of the dictator Saddam Hussein, following the American-led invasion of 2003, as explained in a recent New York Times article: In Iraq, as in much of the rest of the Middle East, government offices operated on an elaborate patronage system in which almost every employee, from senior staff down to the steward who brought refreshments to visitors, owed their jobs to the head man; as might be expected, that man almost invariably a Baath Party member during Saddam Hussein s reign usually handed out those jobs to members of his extended family or tribe. What the firing of as many as 85,000 Baathists actually meant, then, was the cashiering of countless more people and the instant impoverishment of entire clans and tribes. Well, I don t really think the Kenyan system of village and clan networks is quite as extreme as that described here. But nonetheless, it can be argued that something very similar happened in various hamlets in the Rift Valley, when all those top government officials lost their jobs.All of a sudden, there was nobody to turn to in case you needed to do a fundraiser for school fees or hospital bills or anyone to whom you could send your son or daughter who had just obtained a university degree maybe the first in the family and is desperate for employment.At that point, it is very personal, that the well-placed "son of our village" was dismissed from his big job. And all the good things the government may have done previously, count for nothing.