So it is now more than just speculation: Kenya has actually withdrawn from the UN Mission in South Sudan.This was said to be in reaction to a decision by UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon to dismiss Lt-Gen Johnson Ondieki as commander of the UNMISS. The dismissal followed on a UN special investigation that found lack of leadership by the the UN mission, led by Ondieki. It was reported that this lack of leadership culminated in a chaotic and ineffective response during heavy-fighting in Juba between July 8-11. In a quick rejoinder, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on November 2 sent a press release that among other decisions it communicated said Kenya would withdraw its troops from UNMISS and disengage from the South Sudan Peace Process. Foreign Affairs CS Amina Mohamed who, incidentally, is in the race to be AU commission chairperson has further said Kenya may not contribute to future UN peace missions.One of the AU s core objectives is to promote peace, security and stability on the continent. So while Kenya may have withdrawn from the effort to secure peace in South Sudan, totally disengaging from the peace process is problematic, and the haste with which Kenya responded to this matter raises many questions.Kenya has played a key role in bringing peace in South Sudan and there are systemic problems that need to be fixed, as President Uhuru Kenyatta said. But will withdrawing solve these problems? Surely, this is a case of throwing the baby out with bathwater. There are a variety of issues tied up in all this, which we must look at. One is holding military commanders to account. Despite West Gate, Mpeketoni, Garissa University College and El Adde attacks and blunders, we haven t had any of the military leaders held accountable. While unlike Kenya, Uganda punished its generals after a report showed they didn t respond, as required, to the Janaale attack on September 1, 2015. Both the UPDF and Amisom appointed separate boards of inquiry into the attack on Janaale. That hasn t happened in Kenya. The diplomatic relations between Kenya and South Sudan have historically been very close and predate the peace process. Kenya was the lead negotiator in the Comprehensive Peace Agreement signed in 2005 and the Compromise Peace Agreement in 2015.This search for peace and security in South Sudan has involved all three of Kenya's most recent Presidents Daniel Moi, Mwai Kibaki and now Uhuru Kenyatta.Why end it so abruptly? What are the underlying issues, and could it be that there are hidden interests at work here?In Kenya s Foreign Policy, one of the objectives is to enhance regional and global peace and security well-detailed in the Peace Diplomacy pillar. More practically, there is the potential refugee problem.We have hosted refugees from South Sudan for years and whereas the government is repatriating Somali refugees, we are shooting ourselves in the foot by turning our backs on a peace process that will reduce the total number of refugees in Kenya.