Kenya Professional Boxing Commission chairman Hillary Alila is optimistic the Making of a Champion boxing series starting tonight at the Safaricom Indoor Arena will help reinvigorate the sport in the country.The series organise by American promoter EJ Matthews of Bigger than Life Promotions will see different nationalities box it out. They include Tanzanians, South Africans, American and Kenyans. This event offers a great opportunity for Kenya and Kenyan boxers. We have not had many fights in recent times as we would have wanted but the launching of the series gives us hope that professional boxing will rise again, said Alila. We have tried all our best in creating a conducive environment in terms of streamlining our operations and we feel boxers and promoters can now thrive in Kenya. Commonwealth Africa Boxing Ambassador Reuben Ndolo welcomed the series saying they will help in nurturing the boxers in the region and beyond into world champions.Top on the fight card appears to be a mismatch. Kenyan Bernard Adie comes up against two time world heavyweight champion Hasim Rahman.Rahman is a 2001 WBC, IBF and IBO title holder with a pro record of 50 wins (41KOs), nine losses, two draws and a no-contest in a two decade period that ended with a unanimous decision loss to New Zealand s Anthony Nansen in 2014.His opponent, Adie, has never held any major title since making his pro debut in 2010 but has won 13 and lost four in his career. It feels good to step on the ring again after a long time and will be looking forward to beat my fancied opponent, Adie said. I know he is a big name but I am looking forward to write my history. Adie was initially set to for a fight against American Marcellus Brown, who could not travel due to child support issues with Rahman stepping in. It will be a good fight though a bit sudden. I am a fighter and need no preparation. 10 minutes notice is enough for me, said Rahman. Do I see a TKO? Of course!EJ Mathews said: We know there are good boxers in Kenya and the region and that s why we are here. We want to do it the traditional way where boxers were well taken care off. I am not going to depend on the charges to pay my boxer, I already have the money for this fight and the next set for January 21. Fight cardFeatherweight: Anderson Sifuna v Fred Sayuni (Tanzania) 7pm.Super featherweight: Michael Shaka Nyawade v David Rajuli (South Africa) - 8pmSuper middleweight: Daniel Wanyonyi v Ibrahim Mutamba (Tanzania) - 9pmHeavyweight: Hasim Rahman (USA) v Bernard Adie - 10pm