What do the following have in common? His Excellency, Uhuru Kenyatta, President of the Republic of Kenya? David Rudisha, 800 metres Olympic Gold medallist and World Champion? Wangari Maathai, Nobel Peace Prize winner?The answer is that they are prominent Kenyans who have had a very close association with Ireland!President Kenyatta received his secondary education at St Mary s College, Nairobi a prestigious Kenyan institution set up by Irish missionaries from the Holy Ghost Fathers.President Kenyatta s headmaster at St Mary s was an Irishman, Fr Cormac O Broloch n.David Rudisha s athletic coach is an Irishman Brother Colm O Connell an Irish Patrician Brother who came to Kenya 40 years ago and still lives in Iten, Western Kenya. Brother Colm has trained dozens of Kenyan gold and silver medallists from Kenya.Wangari Maathai was educated by the Irish Loreto Sisters in Limuru and her interest in science was profoundly influenced by an Irish nun, Mother Teresia, who founded and taught at Loreto College, Limuru.These are just a few examples of how an Irish presence in Kenya over the past 100 years has helped shape Kenyan history.Mater Hospital in Nairobi which was founded by the Irish Sisters of Mercy. /COURTESYOver the past century, Irish missionaries, non-government organisations, businesses and individuals have worked throughout Kenya and have greatly assisted in improving the livelihoods of Kenyans.Their legacy reflects a strong history of migration and subsequent contribution by Irish people around the world. That legacy has greatly strengthened the relationship between our countries and underpinned excellent political relationships over many years.The Irish have a long tradition of travel, from the missionaries of the 6th and the 7th centuries, who journeyed to Europe (and reputedly to the Americas), up to later times when famine and poverty forced people to emigrate. Today an estimated 70 million people worldwide claim Irish ancestry.Many Irish people migrated to Kenya. Some were missionaries. Some were driven by a sense of adventure. Others saw business opportunities.Others volunteered or worked with international organisations. Many Irish people stayed and made their home here.The Irish community in Kenya at a 1916 commemorative event earlier this year. /COURTESYAnd that s not surprising. There is a lot that brings us together. Kenya and Ireland are both endowed with great natural beauty and wealth. We both have had painful histories of colonisation.We both value a rich tradition and respect community and culture. Over the past 100 years we have struggled to build free and democratic societies.In Ireland, the year 1916 was an important milestone in that struggle when a group of like-minded poets, teachers and socialists staged a rebellion for independence.The Easter Rising was a military failure but, even as its leaders were being executed, it served to accelerate the process of gaining Irish independence in 1922.One hundred years later, the Embassy of Ireland in Kenya decided to commemorate that pivotal moment by capturing the dimensions of the Irish presence in Kenya since 1916.We have worked very closely with the Irish community in Kenya and many Kenyan friends, to gather letters, documents, photographs and stories that faithfully represent the contribution and engagement of the Irish in Kenya over this time.Some of the earliest Irish missionaries to Kenya (1920s). /COURTESYThe Exhibition 100 Years the Irish in Kenya is being launched in the National Museum, Nairobi today.The Exhibition takes the form of 15 banner presentations. Each banner includes photographs, documents and narrative descriptions capturing the different dimensions of Ireland s engagement in Kenya since 1916.It is arranged thematically, in health, education, agriculture and sport. It highlights the contributions of Irish individuals, NGOs and businesses to the development of Kenyan society. It outlines the important role played by the Kenya Irish Society in support of Irish citizens over this period.It outlines the changing Irish official presence in Kenya since Independence and the growing influence of the many Kenyans living in Ireland.We want to capture this great story of the Irish in Kenya so that people can appreciate it, that it not be lost to future generations, and that it can inform the future relationship between our two great countries.A plaque to commemorate the work of Irish surgeon Gerald Neville at Gertrude s Hospital in Nairobi. /COURTESYDr. Vincent O Neill is the Ambassador of Ireland to KenyaThe 100 Years the Irish in Kenya exhibition is open to the public and will be on display at the Kenya National Museum from Thursday December 1st for one month.