HAVE you ever stood in a beauty hall, trying to whittle down which perfume to buy?There is a much more simple way: just think of your favourite cocktail and it will help you work out which components of a perfume you like the best.That s because it s estimated that around 75 per cent of what we taste is actually smell, as the two senses are so closely linked.Mark Crames, chief perfumer at Library of Fragrance, explains: Historically, the quickest way for our brain to tell us whether the scent of something is good or bad and potentially life-threatening has been to link it to a pre-experienced memory of that same odour and the emotions associated with that memory. If you love creamy, rich, vanilla cocktails, for example, you will enjoy vanilla in fragrance, as your brain has a positive emotional attachment to this smell. So, what fragrance should you choose? Pascale Cumming-Benson, of fragrance boutique Les Senteurs, helped to come up with some suggestions.MartiniThe combination of gin, vermouth and lemon makes for a crisp, slick, masculine fragrance, so look for a classic cologne-style fragrance, such as 4711 Original Eau de Cologne or something that picks up on sharp botanicals, such as French Lover by Frederic Malle, with juniper and cedar. NegroniFashionable Negroni blends gin with red vermouth, Campari and a twist of orange. The common fragrance ingredient neroli is steam-distilled from the blossom of bitter orange, an ingredient of Campari.Try Dior s super-citrussy Escale a Portofino or Acqua Di Parma s Colonia Assoluta which has spicy hints of cardamom and pepper.MojitoRum, sugar, lime, mint, ice and soda this cocktail combo characterises a cool Cuban vibe.Snap up the limited-edition Calvin Klein CK One Summer 2016 which cites mojito as one of its key notes. Or, for a sharper take, look to 24 Octobre 1985 from niche perfumer Pozzo di Borgo, based on notes of grapefruit, rum and mint.MargaritaWhen it comes to this Mexican cocktail, most people forget the orange-derived triple sec and remember the citrus juice, tequila and salt. To get this hit, go for Jo Malone Wood Sage &amp; Sea Salt, alongside Lime, Basil &amp; Mandarin. Alternatively, Sel de Vetiver, by The Different Company, is salty-sweet with a touch of grapefruit. CosmopolitanIn TV s Sex And The City, Carrie and co downed the combination of vodka, triple sec, cranberry and lime and these aspects translate easily into fragrance. Try YSL s Baby Doll with blackcurrant and orange, or Escada s Turquoise Summer for berry-based top notes.Pina ColadaThe ultimate cocktail combo of rum, coconut and pineapple conjures up memories of sand, coconut oil and holidays. Try Bobbi Brown s Beach, or splash out on Creed s Virgin Island Water inspired by Caribbean scents.Bloody MaryIt s trickier to find a fragrance that reflects the reviving properties of tomato juice, vodka and spices, but Eau de Protection by quirky Etat Libre d Orange is a tomato-like rose with spices. Or try Diptyque s L Ombre Dans L eau, which is leafy with a touch of tomato.Berry DaiquiriThis cocktail of strawberries, lime, rum and triple sec blend is like a grown-up Slush Puppie.Think Tommy Hilfiger s Tommy Girl with blackcurrant, lemon and rose, or Tauerville s Rose Flash, a sweet, jammy rose that is also very woody.