Gor Mahia coach Ze Maria is determined to play an active role in the recruitment of new players as well as the pre-season training for 2017 and has already identified playing departments that need to be strengthened.The Brazilian coach joined Gor two months into the season this year in their failed campaign to retain the title that they had won a record 15 times. Ferreira also said he was deeply disappointed with the fact that K Ogalo didn t win any trophy this year, although he was quick to add that the team performed quite well nevertheless. We lost too many points early in the season and we were unable to recover in good time. Congratulations to Tusker for finishing ahead of us. We shall see them next season, he said on the KPL official portal. I am just as disappointed as the club s wonderful fans are that we lost out on the trophy, but I think we did well to finish second. As you know, I only joined this club after the team had played about four games. Next season, I want to be actively involved in pre-season and recruitment so that I can be in a better position to make decisions concerning players. We have very good players currently, but we need to strengthen the midfield and central defence positions, and I am hoping to get about six new players that will see us regain the league title and other trophies we lost, he said.Ferreira, a former Brazil full back, joined Gor Mahia in March this year and was given the task of guiding the team to an unprecedented 16th league title.This proved too difficult an objective, as he lost both the league title and two other domestic cups with the team disappointingly finishing without a trophy.During the failed campaign, Ferreira endured fierce criticism with a section of the club members agitating for his sacking. The 46-year-old s contract runs until February 2018.Of great concern to the club, however, is that five key players Karim Nizigiyimana, Abouba Sibomana, Enock Agwanda, Boniface Oluoch and Eric Ouma will all be out of contracts by the end of this year. Ferreira said he has already notified the management and asked them to find ways of ensuring the quintet remain at the club.