Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho is an academic dwarf and has a questionable degree that makes him oppose the set up of a dry port, Deputy President William Ruto has said.He spoke at Mombasa Women Hall and also during the official launch of Jubilee Party, Coast chapter at the historic Tononoka grounds.The office of the governor has refused to respond.Calls to Joho's mobile phone went unanswered and by the time of going to the press, he had not responded to a text message sent to him. Joho has been rejecting plans to set up a dry port in Naivasha. He has consistently claimed jobs will be lost if a dry port is set up and the clearing agents will be the most affected lot. ODM luminaries especial from Mombasa have echoed his sentiment. Kakamega senator Bonny Khalwale also echoed supported Joho during ODM 10 at 10 celebrations in Mombasa.ODM leader Raila Odinga has said setting up a dry port is wider scheme by Jubilee to 'hurt' the Coast economy. He has said development will be stifled.At present, 70% of Kenya s imports end up in Nairobi, incurring higher transport costs and journey times from Port of Mombasa as well as inconveniencing businesses and pushing up prices for consumers. The government said there is need to bring services closer to customers by, for example, introducing dry ports- Naivasha and others.But Joho insinuated during ODM's 10th anniversary celebrations, saying the Jubilee government is out to "finish" the county. Joho said it does not make economic sense to create a dry port when there is an existing sea port in Mombasa.Joho claims all crucial Port services will be transferred to Naivasha via the Standard Gauge Railway. The Coast city will be left without major port activities thus Mombasa will turn to a ghost town as thousands will be rendered jobless.Ruto said only those with questionable papers cannot understand port's operations.Joho has since 2013 had his academic papers challenged in court, after claims emerged that he forged papers and bought papers.He was however cleared by the courts which declared that he had a genuine decree from Kampala International University.Ruto said the port not only handles imported cargo, but also exports."I hear some people here in Mombasa are opposed to dry port. Those are the effects of buying (academic) papers," he said at MWH.Ruto said the government is determined to establish dry ports in Nairobi, Naivasha and Kisumu.He faulted critics for arguing unreasonably.At Tononoka, Ruto accused Joho of consistently attacking him."Am not in contest with you," he said.Speaking separately in Kilifi on Sunday, Joho said Ruto has no moral authority to start "lecturing" coast people. Joho has been bashing Ruto claiming he is not his match.The governor has been saying come 2022, he will defeat Ruto hands down if they face off on presidential race.Joho intends to use ODM ticket to get to the top seat while Ruto is set to contest on Jubilee Party ticket.Analysts say Joho scathing attack on Ruto is a wider plan to dicredit and place the DP of balance come 2022.During the rally, Ruto alluded he cannot finacially compete with Joho who has been doing "that" business and boasts of having massive wealth."If you have money, briefcase or sack full of cash, that's yours. I don't have time for that," Ruto said.Joho had told off JP leaders including President Uhuru Kenyatta and Ruto that he cannot be bought."I'm too expensive for you. You cannot buy me. I have my own money," Joho said during ODM '10 at 10' celebration held at Mama Ngina Drive.