The International Cricket Council series returns to Kenya today, five years since Nairobi hosted a global fixture due to security reasons.Kenya hosts Hong Kong today at the Nairobi Gymkhana Club for the first time after the United Arab Emirates played at the same grounds in 2011 at the ICC World Cricket League.After reaching its peak in the annals of cricket history at the 2003 International Cricket Council World Cup in South Africa, where they crushed out in the semis, and beating cricket powerhouse West Indies in their debut World Cup in 1996, cricket in the country started to gradually dwindle. Cricket Kenya have had their own share of ups and downs after the famed Kenya s 2003 ICC World Cup performance and rising above the challenges has proved tough. At the time, Kenya was almost becoming the 12th nation to play test matches.A mess both on and off the field, and poor domestic structure in the country remained poor for a long span of time. Change of administrators; players and coach discord, and lack of development structures are the main attributes of the generally low standards of cricket. The sport is still struggling to get back on its feet.In 2005, the Kenya Cricket Association chairman Sharad Ghai was ousted by the government for alleged mismanagement of the board s funds, and was replaced by Samir Inamdar, who inherited a huge debt with no asset. During Inamdar s tenure at the helm, the national team participated in two ICC World Cups in 2007 and 2011, posting diminishing performances.In 2012, Jackie Janmohammed, the current CK president took over the board when Inamdar s office had just started implementing a comprehensive reforms. During this time, the national team had recorded the worst-ever performance at the 2011 World Cup in the sub-continent. This happened to be Kenya s last World Cup after they failed to qualify for the 2015 edition of the games.Feuds between players and the then head coach Eldine Baptiste was cited as the biggest factor leading to the decimal 2011 World Cup show, especially the huge losses against New Zealand and Pakistan. They were bowled for 69 and beaten by 205 runs by two countries respectively.The boys pathetic surrender in each of the above games did not go down well with the board and more than 90 per cent of the team players were relieved off their national duty, handicapping continuity of the Kenyan game at the top level. The board felt the old guards were not committed to performance, but interested in selfish and personal gains.The once ICC Associate super power had come down to its knees. Janmohammed took over the already crippled CK Board in 2012, promised to revive and strengthen both the national under 19 and senior men s sides. Whether things will change in the near future remains to be seen though the trend is worrying.