Human rights lawyer Willie Kimani and his client Josephat Mwendwa were afraid they would be killed if they failed to withdraw a complaint against a senior cop.Yesterday, a witness told the High Court the two spent their last days scared for their lives. This was after Mlolongo OCS Moses Wambugu, now dead, demanded Mwenda withdraw a complaint against sergeant Fredrick Leliman or he d be killed and his body dumped. Kimani, also an undercover investigator, and Mwenda had desperately sought help from Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet, IPOA and Safaricom. Help did not come. Lawyer Edward Mbanya with IJM, testified before justice Ruth Sitati that the Kimani had written letters, seeking witness protection for Mwenda. However, by June 23 when the two were kidnapped and later killed along with taxi driver Joseph Muirri there was no response.The night before the three men were brutally killed and their bodies dumped at Oldonyo Sabuk River, Mwenda spent the night at a safe house in Rongai. It was very clear to them Mwenda was in danger. The situation worsened after the Mlolongo OCS confronted Mwenda and told him Leliman would kill him and dump his body if he failed to withdraw the complaint, Mbanya testified. On Thursday, the court heard that senior sergeant Fredrick Leliman, who was in charge of Syokimau AP Camp, his deputy sergeant Leonard Mwangi and an informer Peter Ngugi killed the three men in an open field at Soweto near Mastermind Tobacco on June 23.The three allegedly hatched the plot to eliminate Mwenda at a hotel in Mlolongo on June 22.Mwenda had recorded several statements concerning threats, intimidation and an incident in which he was shot by the officer. Mbanya, who acted for Mwenda in two cases at Mavoko initiated by Leliman, narrated chilling events leading to the murders.Leliman got more worried after he tried to get his call records. Kimani picked Mwenda from a safe house in Rongai and I found them in court at 8am. However, we were told the case will be heard at 10am. We realised two men were monitoring us, he said. After the hearing, the witness said he went to his car and as he was leaving the compound he realised a suspicious car following them. The trial will continue on Monday.