Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter has quit Jubilee saying There is too much graft in the government. He said on Wednesday he will defend his seat either as an independent candidate or he might join another party.Keter launched a scathing attack on President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto, saying the country s economy is collapsing because of graft. You can quote me on this. Anyone you see supporting Jubilee is either stupid or corrupt, he said.Keter likened the alleged graft in the government to a cancer eating away at the country. The other name of Jubilee is corruption and you cannot describe corruption in Kenya without calling it Jubilee. I mean Jubilee and corruption are one and the same, he said during an interview with the Star in Eldoret town.Keter urged Kenyans to vote out Uhuru and Ruto. We should now be talking about their replacement with someone who will help Kenyans because definitely it s not Uhuru and Ruto. They have not done anything for this country, he said.He accused Uhuru and Ruto of playing the tribal card, using Kalenjins and Kikuyus. They have been telling us that Kalenjins will take over in 2022 and Kikuyus are in it but they have not been mismanaging the country s resources on behalf of their communities, Keter said.More on this: Ignore Jubilee's 'fake' promises ahead of March 7 by-poll, Alfred Keter tells KerichoRead: Jubilee 'will lose' in 2017 - KeterHe alleged top state officials - whom he did not name - have looted cash and used it to build malls in South Africa and Dubai. Keter said the officials will flee the county once the economy collapses . Keter said Uhuru has failed to offer the political goodwill to fight graft. Even institutions like the EACC are now part and parcel of graft so they cannot fight corruption, he said.Keter said he had been branded a warmonger and a broker because he speaks against graft. He said he has nothing personal against anyone.Keter said all those who mocked him including Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, majority leader Aden Duale and Ruto s aide Farouk Kibet have been linked to the NYS scam. Someone like Farouk was a mere nominated councilor in Eldoret before becoming Ruto s aide, but, within a short time, he has been coming to my constituency for harambees and giving donations of more than Sh1 million, he said. Kibet has admitted that he handled part of the NYS cash and even just by that fact he should have been charged, because handling stolen property is a crime, Keter said. He said the President has openly told Kenyans he is helpless in the war on graft yet he has powers to ensure all those involved in graft are arrested . Keter denied he is involved in a political battle with Ruto. What I know is that he is the DP and I am the MP for Nandi Hills. I don t need to have any other relationship with him because he is neither my brother nor my cousin, he said.