The much-awaited National Olympic Committee of Kenya (NOCK) elections early expected to take place by December 31 will not be held this year.NOCK secretary general FK Paul said they are under no obligation to hold the polls this year, going by the road-map spelt out by the International Olympic Committee.He said the world governing Olympic body didn t give a deadline but only gave guidelines hence the directive was misinterpreted. We first have to finish the constitutional review process which is currently ongoing before coming up with the road-map to the elections, he said.Paul said the 31st Olympiad by IOC will be closed on December 31st, where they have to give an audit to their affiliates before the 32nd Olympiad is opened on January 1st. The 32nd Olympiad will end on December 31, 2020 when NOC-K will be required to submit the next audited accounts to the global body. As NOC-K we need sufficient time to carry our audit before submitting it to IOC and therefore it will not be possible for us to hold the polls this year. We need to audit our accounts and comply with IOC statutes in time, he said.The secretary general said NOCK will convene an extra ordinary general meeting after the constitutional review process is over for endorsement and then set the elections date. The official claimed the government is frustrating the process by being uncooperative. The government seems not keen on what was agreed during a tripartite meeting in Lausanne with IOC. Sports minister Dr. Hassan Wario was supposed to rescind or denounce the move he took in disbanding NOC-K publicly just as he did when made the move, he said.Paul said according to the agreement in Lausanne, the government was supposed to dialogue with NOC-K on the road-map to a new constitution and fresh polls, something the minister has failed to initiate.On September 1, a tripartite meeting in Lausanne, Switzerland between representatives from the IOC, Nock and the Kenyan Government was convened to resolve the leadership impasse of the local umbrella body after it was disbanded by Wario.In a meeting attended by a Kipchoge Keino-led Nock and a delegation from the Ministry of Sports, headed by Dr. Hassan Wario Arero, IOC ordered their Kenyan affiliate to convene an Extraordinary General Assembly in accordance with the current constitution and Olympic Charter to address and solve issues.It was agreed that Nock s constitution be reviewed and the proposed amendments submitted to the IOC for approval in accordance with the Olympic Charter.In a statement released by J r me Poivey, the IOC head of Institutional relations and governance, instructed their Kenyan affiliate to hold elections under a new constitution.But according to the global body, the process leading to Nock s quadrennial elections must be agreed to by all member federations at the general assembly.