Deputy President William Ruto yesterday continued lobbying for Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed (pictured) in C&ocirc;te d&rsquo;Ivoire, Ghana and Liberia for the position of the African Union Commission chairperson. South Africa&rsquo;s Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, who currently holds the position, has opted not to contest for another term.During a meeting with Ruto at the Abidjan presidential palace, C&ocirc;te d&rsquo;Ivore President Alassane Ouattara said he is personally comfortable with Mohamed&rsquo;s candidature. He said she has the capability, qualification and understanding of what Africa wants.&ldquo;Whoever will be elected must push for the integration of Africa as a priority because it is through integration that the continent can progress,&rdquo; Ouattara said. He said his country would consider Kenya&rsquo;s request. Ouattara said President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s gesture in sending Ruto to lobby for Mohamed is significant and he does not take it for granted.Ruto said even though the East African Community countries and the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa have endorsed Mohamed, the endorsement would not be complete without the support of West African countries. The DP said Kenya enjoys long-standing, cordial relations with C&ocirc;te d&rsquo;Ivore.Ruto was accompanied by Mohamed and West Pokot Governor Simon Kachapin. the DP said he is optimistic Cote d&rsquo;Ivore will support Mohamed. Ruto said the AU is committed to leadership that will encourage and enhance intra-Africa trade to bring the African governments together.&ldquo;We believe Mohamed has the potential to push Africa&rsquo;s agenda, especially on matters integration,&rdquo; Ruto said. He addressed the press at the presidential palace in the company of Ouattara. Ruto said the African Union would be committed to creating bridges between nations.The DP said African countries are working together to ensure integration is accelerated. &ldquo;I have come here as a special envoy sent by President Uhuru Kenyatta to meet President Ouattara to discuss matters of trade between our countries and ask for the support of our Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Amb Mohammed for the position of AU Commission chairperson,&rdquo; he said.