Mouth-watering battle set for Nakuru Athletic ClubKenya Cup champions Kabras face Nakuru in a highly anticipated Kenya Cup clash at the Nakuru Athletic club today.The hosts got a rude shock last week when they were hammered 33-3 by KCB at the Lions Den in Ruaraka.Despite a promising start with two wins over Mwamba (26-11) and Mean Machine (41-7), the Wanyore have looked shaky at best and will have to be at their best to subdue the sugarmillersCoach Enos Otieno knows this could be a defining game of the season for his charges. We were outplayed by KCB last week. We have looked at the mistakes we made and are looking at playing better against Kabras, added Otieno.Otieno will want to see his side being competitive at the setpiece and win the collisions at the gainline against a robust Kabras outfit who have won their three opening matches beating Mean Machine (14-13) , Western Bulls (17-8) and Mwamba (20-11). It will be a tough battle upfront especially in the forwards. We must win that battle and improve on our discipline so that we don't give away needless penalties, Otieno added.Key players for Nakuru will include Coleman Were, Charles Odongo , Sammy Warui and Edwins Makori in the forwards with Geoffrey Ominde pulling the strings in the backs alongside Henry Ayah, Cassius Omolo, and Gramwell Bunyassi.Kabras coach Anthony Ogot expects a stern test against the former champions despite their lacklustre performance last weekend. Ogot said it will be tough match. Our matches against Nakuru have always been close and I expect the same on Saturday. They will be hurting from the loss to KCB and will want to set the record straight, he added.Kabras are yet to fire on all cylinders but Ogot says its still early days in the season."We have a long way to go to the business end of the season so its one game at a time and look at improving ourselves" added Ogot.Ogot will rely on Hillary Mwanjilwa, Joseph Amalemba, Fijian Suli Tavodi, Fidel Oloo in the forwards with Brian Tanga, Pete Nakarawa, and Malik Habil the star men in the backs. Ogot can also call on the experienced quartet of international Dan Sikuta, Edwin Achayo, Nick Barasa and Felix Ayange from the bench. The 2015 Kenya Cup champions KCB have a date against Mean Machine at the University of Nairobi grounds with Jamhuri Park hosting a double header. At 2pm, high flying Resolution Impala Saracens face an acid test against a wounded Homeboyz RFC who saw their unbeaten record end last weekend against Quins. At 4pm Nondies welcome Quins as winless Mwamba entertain Western Bulls at the Railway club.