Opposition leaders have pledged to work with like-minded individuals to build and strengthen the National Super Alliance to dethrone the Jubilee Party.Leaders who spoke yesterday in Bomet Stadium during a prayer rally for Governor Isaac Rutto said the only way to send home President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto to come together.Rutto arrived from South Africa on Friday evening. He had gone for treatment after he was allegedly hit by a tear gas canister during a chaotic football match at Silibwet.The leaders took a swipe at the Jubilee administration over runaway corruption and failed promises. Theose present included Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and governors Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega) and Jack Ranguma (Kisumu).Others were MPs John Mbadi (Suba), Johanna Ng&rsquo;eno (Emurua Dikirr), Zakayo Cheruiyot (Kuresoi South) and Sakwa Bunyasi (Nambale), Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, Kanu secretary general Nick Salat, former Bureti MP Paul Sang and several MCAs also attended.They used the opportunity to drum up support for Rutto&rsquo;s reelection, saying much has been achieved under his leadership in Bomet and he has championed the interest of other counties.Rutto said Jubilee should not tyrannise other communities, as all Kenyans, regardless of their ethnic backgrounds, have a right to lead the country. &ldquo;We&rsquo;ll decide on whom to support by early next year. It&rsquo;s too early to talk about it now. Let&rsquo;s concentrate on our mandates,&rdquo; he said.Officer forgivenThe Chama Cha Mashinani leader said he has forgiven the administration police officer who injured him. He said the Jubilee leadership is to blame. Moi condemned the incident. Kalonzo criticised the police over the attack, saying it is reminiscent of the dark days. He decried the high levels of corruption. &ldquo;If they continue with the same trend, this nation is headed to the dogs. We should condemn this vice because we cannot allow few leaders to enrich themselves at the expense of the suffering millions,&rdquo; Kalonzo said.He urged Kenyans to vote Jubilee out of power at the 2017 election. &ldquo;Count on us, we&rsquo;ll wipe out this vice,&rdquo; Kalonzo said. Mudavadi said he strongly supports NASA as the only strong union that will bring change change. Ng&rsquo;eno said, &ldquo;Kenya is not a police state. This is democratic republic.&rdquo; He said the government should not use police to silence Kenyans.