That some MPs can go out of their way to amuse Kenyans is in no doubt. Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale, aka, the Bullfighter, caused uproar in the House when he asked Nominated Senator Zipporah Kittony to walk the catwalk in the Chamber, perhaps borrowing from Deputy President William Ruto s crude reference to ex-Devolution CS Anne Waiguru strutting around as corruption allegations fill the air. Khalwale, known for his light jokes, said Kittony was beautiful and smartly dressed enough to qualify for walking the catwalk to entertain colleagues in the House. However, female senators tore into the Bullfighter, reminding him that the House is a place for quality debates Sirisia legislator and and ODM renegade John Waluke is not mincing his words in response to the threats by the party to expel him and detonate a by-election. He says he is not scared in any way. The retired Major General was all smiles yesterday in Parliament, maintaining he has no intention to appeal against the decision by the ODM National Governing Council to expel him. He said the ground was still for him and that at no time will he lose reelection in Sirisia constituency just because he won t run on the ODM ticket. I am in Jubilee to stay. I am ready for a by-election and I am telling ODM leader Raila Odinga to bring it on, Walukhe said. Corridors understands Waluke went to DP William Ruto s Harambee Annex office. Afterwards, Waluke said, ODM can go dry up. A manager at East African Portland Cement Company is frustrated after she was transferred to a non-existent position for declining sexual advances from her boss. The woman was removed from her office after she protested an incident in which the randy man groped and tried to kiss her. Members of the Board she has approached have all adopted a see-no-evil, hear-no-evil approach and instead want to bury the matter. JUST who owns this club in Milimani? Despite a court order closing the club for noise pollution issued in August this year, the proprietors of the upmarket entertainment joint have made frequent visits to County Hall, seeking the intervention of the powers-that-be. They want clearance to continue polluting the environment, to the chagrin of residents. The issue of whether to allow the club to make noise within the Milimani neighbourhood has split City Hall right down the middle, with one faction said to be pushing a senior county inspector to write a favorable report. The other group has tried compelling an executive to circumvent the law.