Siaya Senator James Orengo and Kisumu Deputy Governor Ruth Odinga have entered the Siaya and Kisumu governor races respectively.This will provide a fresh headache for Cord leader Raila Odinga and ODM ahead of the primaries next year. Orengo is a close ally of Raila while Ruth is his younger sister.They will face Raila s other close allies and staunch supporters in the primaries. In Siaya, Orengo is expected to battle it out with the incumbent Cornel Rasanga, businessman William Oduol, Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo and former PS Carey Orege.Sources add that plans are underway for Orengo to meet Ugenya elders at his home for blessings and formally declare his interest at Siaya Stadium. Orengo will be riding on his vast experience in politics and his advocacy for democracy.However, some county leaders have publicly declared their preferred candidate in the Siaya governor race.Rasanga has received public endorsement from county and other Nyanza leaders.During the ID campaign drive at Ahindi Garden in Siaya town last month, Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi and Siaya woman representative Christine Ombaka endorsed Rasanga.Wandayi, a close ally of Raila, said they will only consider loyal party members for top county positions, like Rasanga, who has been proved and tested.Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo is working closely with Gumbo and Odoul after parting with Orengo. He has said he will soon name his preferred Siaya governor candidate in December.Midiwo and Orengo are said to have parted ways after failing to agree on a list that could see Orengo run for Siaya governor and Midiwo as senator.Orengo has proposed Oburu Oginga for the Senate seat.Midiwo and Wandayi are not reading from the same script on who should be the next Siaya governor.Wandayi is advocating for Rasanga s reelection and Midiwo has sworn to dislodge Rasanga s bid.In Kisumu, Ruth said she is ready to face the incumbent Jack Ranguma, Senator Anyang Nyong o, businessman Hezron McObewa, architect Chris Ondiek and Maendeleo Ya Wanawake Organisation chairperson Christine Atieno.Speaking to the Star on Monday at Kisumu County Hospital, Ruth said she is confident she will dislodge Ranguma in the ODM nominations. I will not be intimidated. I m in the race for governor. As far as I am concerned, I m the only woman in ODM running for the position and my opponents should be ready, she said. In the last election, Ruth was prevailed upon to drop her bid and become Ranguma s running mate after acrimonious ODM nominations.She said she will not be intimidated by violence and vote buying perpetrated by some men aspirants.Sources say she is riding on her brother Raila s name, but Ruth says she is my own person .Political analyst Jared Okello said Ruth being Raila s sister will not influence her election, considering what happened in 2013. She had to step down and become Ranguma s running mate. Okello said Raila will endorse anybody for the race to ensure free and fair nominations.He said the Cord chief wants to focus more on his presidential bid and not the backlash that comes with bungled nominations.Lawyer Richard Onsongo said being Raila s key allies will not influence Nyong o s or Ranguma s election.He said all aspirants will have to sell their policies to the electorate who will vote. Voters will make decision based on which candidate s agenda addresses their problems, not who is closest to Raila, Onsongo said being Raila s sister will complicate Ruth s candidature because critics may say leadership in Nyanza is not only for the Odinga family.