"So the day I become President no one else in my father s family; grown men and women with families, can do business with my government?, "Ngunjiri Wambugu asked on his Twitter handle.My good friend Ngunjiri: The Constitution of Kenya is big on values and principles of governance. At Article 10 (2) (c), for instance, it proclaims good governance, integrity, transparency and accountability to be among these values and principles of governance. Article 73 (2) (b) states that the guiding principles of leadership and integrity include objectivity and impartiality in decision-making, and in ensuring that decisions are not influenced by nepotism, favoritism, other improper motives or corrupt practices. Article 227 (1) requires a State organ or any other public entity to contract for goods and services in accordance with a system that is fair, equitable, transparent, competitive and cost-effective. Article 232 (1) enumerates the values and principles in the public service to include, among others, high standards of professional ethics and impartial and equitable provision of services.Hence, it is not that a president s family cannot do business with his government; rather, the position is that the clear or perceived conflict of interest in so doing must first be purged before any envisaged engagement is proceeded with. This is to ensure that fairness is not only achieved but also seen to have been achieved. Ngunjiri: how to deal with or purge conflicts of interest is the stuff of readily available corporate governance literature and, hence, should not detain us any further. I wish, however, to explore a little deeper and explain a little more the connection between conflict of interest and Kenya s unique experience with corruption. In the leaked internal audit report of the Ministry of Health, the names of President Uhuru Kenyatta s younger sister and first cousin were prominently highlighted as among the beneficiaries of state contracts; a fact that neither has denied. In these circumstances, it is important to delve deeper to ensure that the obvious conflict of interest was fully declared and purged; for this is the constitutional standard to which we must hold ourselves. In the context of Kenya s history, Charles Hornsby in Kenya: A History Since Independence notes:The origins and extent of corruption in Independent Kenya is a sensitive subject. It is clear that the misuse of public office for private gain was built into the indirect model of colonial rule During Mau Mau, Kikuyu Home Guards systematically extorted funds from others. Late colonial history also suggests that theft or embezzlement of funds was common...misappropriation was common. Njonjo admitted that 130 civil servants had been sacked for theft or financial irregularities in 1965 alone The growing lack of restraint was driven from the top, where the Kenyatta family continued to enrich itself. In 1974, the High Commission reported that meetings with the president required a donation of [British Pounds] 2,000 5,000 for a 10-minute audience, to be paid to a charity of his choice (cheques left blank). Attempts to require Kenyatta to pay for the fuel he was using at his farms led to the deportation of the American managing director of Esso in 1974. With the first family s noses in the trough, there was little to stop his allies from doing the same. Although he retained a good public image, insiders also viewed Moi as extremely corrupt . Corruption under Moi is well documented Ngunjiri: please, for instance, borrow from your friends in the current government what must be a now-very-dusty copy of the Kroll Report that was part of an investigation spearheaded by John Githongo; when he entertained the blinkered view that the NARC government led by Mwai Kibaki was serious about fighting corruption. But let s circle back to the post-independent origins of corruption in Kenya. Daniel Branch in Kenya: Between Hope and Despair, 1963-2011 narrates:With good reason, they came to believe that the land transfer programme had been corrupted by elites for personal and political gain Rather than being subdivided, the purchased land was quickly resold to key political figures that Kenyatta was keen to retain within networks of patronage. The corruption of and redistribution was just one part of a wider picture of endemic corruption by public servants. By the government s own admission in 1967, cases of fraud involving public figures and bodies had doubled in the independence era. The situation only worsened in the years that followed. Kenya has clearly entered its robber baron era, wrote one American diplomat in 1972. Corruption began at the very top of government. Back to the land is the traditional Kikuyu motto and [Kenyatta] is certainly taking that literally. He allegedly buys new farms for himself and his relatives on each trip to Nakuru Ngunjiri: my teacher Pheroze Nowrojee once illuminated that impunity ultimately shrinks due to the tenacity of testimony. This is why I verily believe that the subject of history has been delegitimized in our education system. It also would explain why the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation report struggles to receive serious official consideration. Nevertheless, kindly allow me to conclude with more testimony from Branch:Kenyatta s inner circle was tied together by marriage, private enterprise and political power. His much younger and elegant fourth wife, Mama Ngina, was notorious among diplomats and Kenyans alike on account of allegations of corruption made against her Any efforts to halt corruption were quickly quashed. A parliamentary select committee was formed in October 1971 with the express purpose of investigating the related phenomena of tribalism and corruption. The following month, Kenyatta used a regular meeting of the KANU MPs to announce that the committee would be blocked at every turn, and that the police had been ordered not to cooperate.Ngure wa Gachanja is a human rights and democratic governance practitioner. The views expressed in this column are entirely his own and in no way represent or articulate those of any organizations he may be associated with.