It is true enough that things can happen in any organisation and the CEO be the last to hear about it. And it was on this basis that I was saying that it was unfair to blame Anne Waiguru when we have a PS in the Devolution ministry, a Director General of the National Youth Service, and many other managers.But, honestly speaking, when you have got someone a former hairdresser strutting around with Sh100 million in cash! Seriously. I am not sure that even the President of this country or even the Deputy President has ever seen Sh100 million in cash.So, imagine a situation in which a sum like Sh100 million becomes like a pedestrian joke. And I am convinced now that there is no way that Anne Waiguru was not aware of what was happening.The whole system given what we now know was like a walk-in, walkout system at the NYS, sometimes with more cash than a loaded ATM. So, it is not just a matter of whether you stole money, or what has been proved. To have watched over a system of stealing is just pitiful.When I was in accounting class at the University of Nairobi School of Business, I was taught by one Professor Nzomo that fraud is an equation. That it is a function of three things: Desire, ability and opportunity. Many people have a desire for money, and likewise many people have the ability to commit fraud. So you cannot fight fraud by focusing on people's desires or abilities. The only thing you can control is people's opportunities to steal. And Anne Waiguru failed to do that.But what I am really angry about, is if there was any one programme that would have brought real change to this country, it was the NYS. You find places like Kibera and Gatundu and wherever where youths were working and we were instilling in them some sense of self-discipline; and these youths were becoming patriotic and hopeful about their country. It was one thing that could really transform this country.So I am really angry, because I really, really loved this programme. I was very supportive of this programme. I was critical not of people who were against Anne Waiguru, but people who were against this programme. This is one programme that was going to define President Uhuru Kenyatta s legacy. And it is representative of the man I have known for many years.Moses Kuria is the MP for Gatundu South