So I was visiting my friend in Ngara the other day, and everyone greeted me with a smile and a kind word, as I used to live here. It felt nice. I stepped out of her flat at a high-rise building for some air and had a bird s eye view. Beneath was a ramshackle conglomeration of rusty red roof tops, and sodden alleyways with hanging lines filled with clothes.I saw the brightest white vests ever floating in the wind, shirts firmly bleached, pants that looked brand new on the clothesline.Right next to the clothes, a man came out of the door, turned into a hidden corner and pulled out a mkokoteni, pulled some garments from the line and proceeded on his way, sharply dressed. If only his mkokoteni looked as nice as he did. Shortly, another man came out, dressed as well, and proceeded in the opposite direction with his own load.A slight problem faced them as they had to swerve aside for young ladies and men, dressed to the tee, not caring which way they walked. Both were heading to work, but one was in the way of the other. But work is work, right?Then something across the road caught my eye. A sleek Benz rolled up to an equally sleek gate, except there was a matatu that had been stuck right in front of it. Astonishingly, four passengers got out and helped to push it out of the way. In rolled the car and with a hoot, out came a young boy holding hands with who I would assume was the garden boy. Carefully, he helped him into the back seat followed by a young lady (daughter?), and as soon as they were in, out zoomed the car, regardless of the pedestrians or boda bodas that were passing by.What really struck me though was how easily the garden boy just carried on with his business, greeting his mates and closing the gate. We take these things for granted, yet social inequality will not lead us anywhere. We should think about the people we pay 500 bob a day to do menial work. Their work is probably harder than ours. They don t spend half their days on Facebook and probably trek long distances to get to these plush homes.Let s all take a look at the society we live in and hopefully, if only it starts with a smile and a hello, we can change the discrepancy we live in.