Demonstrators marched in cities across the United States on Wednesday to protest against Republican Donald Trump's surprise U.S. presidential election win, blasting his controversial campaign rhetoric about immigrants, Muslims and other groups.In New York, thousands of protesters filled streets in midtown Manhattan as they made their way to Trump Tower, Trump's gilded home on Fifth Avenue. Hundreds of others gathered at a Manhattan park and shouted "Not my president."Protesters reach Trump Tower as they march against Republican president-elect Donald Trump in the neighbourhood of Manhattan in New York, U.S., November 9, 2016. REUTERS/Eduardo MunozProtesters threw objects at police in riot gear and smashed windows at a CVS drug store in Oakland, California. Police responded by throwing chemical irritants at the protesters, according to a Reuters witness.In downtown Chicago, an estimated 1,800 people gathered outside the Trump International Hotel and Tower, chanting phrases like "No Trump! No KKK! No racist USA."Chicago police closed roads in the area, impeding the demonstrators' path. There were no immediate reports of arrests or violence there."I'm just really terrified about what is happening in this country," said 22-year-old Adriana Rizzo in Chicago, who was holding a sign that read: "Enjoy your rights while you can."Krystina Robinson of Las Vegas carries a placard in protest against the election of Republican Donald Trump as President of the United States, across from the Trump International Hotel &amp; Tower in Las Vegas, Nevada, U.S. November 9, 2016. REUTERS/David BeckerIn Seattle, police responded to a shooting with multiple victims near the scene of anti-Trumpprotests. Police said the shooting was unrelated to the demonstrations.Protesters railed against Trump's campaign pledge to build a wall along the border with Mexico to keep immigrants from entering the United States illegally.Hundreds also gathered in Philadelphia, Boston and Portland, Oregon, on Wednesday evening, and organizers planned rallies in San Francisco, Los Angeles and Oakland, California.In Austin, the Texas capital, about 400 people marched through the streets, police said.A representative of the Trump campaign did not respond immediately to requests for comment on the protests. Trump said in his victory speech he would be president for all Americans, saying: "It is time for us to come together as one united people."Earlier this month, his campaign rejected the support of a Ku Klux Klan newspaper and said that "Mr. Trump and his campaign denounces hate in any form."Protesters reach Trump Tower as they march against Republican president-elect Donald Trump in the neighborhood of Manhattan in New York, U.S., November 9, 2016. REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz "DREAMERS" FEAR DEPORTATIONEarlier on Wednesday, some 1,500 students and teachers rallied in the courtyard of Berkeley High School, in a San Francisco Bay Area city known for its liberal politics, before marching toward the campus of the University of California, Berkeley.Hundreds of high school and college students also walked out in protest in Seattle, Phoenix, Los Angeles and three other Bay Area cities - Oakland, Richmond and El Cerrito.A predominantly Latino group of about 300 high school students walked out of classes on Wednesday morning in Los Angeles and marched to the steps of City Hall, where they held a brief but boisterous rally.Chanting in Spanish: "The people united will never be defeated," the group held signs with slogans such as "Not Supporting Racism, Not My President" and "Immigrants Make America Great."Many of those students were members of the "Dreamers" generation, children whose parents entered the United States with them illegally, school officials said, and who fear deportation under a Trump administration."A child should not live in fear that they will be deported," said Stephanie Hipolito, one of the student organizers of the walkout. She said her parents were U.S. citizens.People protest outside Trump Tower following President-elect Donald Trump's election victory in Manhattan, New York, U.S., November 9, 2016. REUTERS/Andrew KellyThere were no immediate reports of arrests or violence.Wednesday's demonstrations followed a night of protests in the San Francisco area and elsewhere in the country in response to Trump's victory against heavily favored Democratic rival Hillary Clinton.Demonstrators smashed storefront windows and set garbage and tires ablaze late on Tuesday in downtown Oakland.