Like many others before him, Ndia MP Stephen Ngare s entry into politics was purely accidental.As a young man, he never had eyes for politics. I never thought I would ever join politics, he says, But I decided to join politics to serve the people of Ndia; to give back to the community for what they did to me because I reckoned that it is the best way of serving the people. The critical moment on the influence of politics in his life struck him during the grand coalition government which ruled Kenya between 2008 and 2013.This was after he was appointed to the Kenya National Highway Authority as the Chief executive. The ODM wing of the coalition opposed his appointment on the grounds that there was no consultation between President Mwai Kibaki and Prime Minister Raila Odinga. It was a critical time in the life of our country. The ODM side of the coalition rejected my appointment insisting the position be given to their man. Having studied engineering at university, Ngare joined the public service where he rose through the ranks in the ministry of Roads and public works before he joined Kenha.While in the ministry, the MP was in charge of various construction projects. He singles out the European Union construction of Kericho - Sotik highway as his most memorable projects.Even though it was done about 30 years ago, the quality of the road still stands to this day.''I am proud of the work we did on the highway. I oversaw its design and supervised its construction from scratch. Residents still praise the people behind the project to date, 20 years down the line. This makes me proud of the work.''Ngare was also the country coordinator for the first International project under the East Africa Community, the Arusha- Namanga - Athi river highway. I steered it from design to construction. That is a major road which was commissioned by the Heads of states from Kenya and Tanzania.''Other than the two projects, the MP was also instrumental in the construction of Nairobi - Thika dual carriage way.Ngare believes quality education is the key to eradicate poverty in Kenya.As an MP he is a champion of quality education through his CDF kitty which he has used to transform education in his constituency.The MP plans to defend his seat in the 2017 general election.*****1953: Born at Mukangu, in Ndia constituency1961: Started education at Kiine Primary where he did his CPE in 1967.1968: Njiris High School where he did his O level exams in 1971. He returned to the same school for his A levels between 1972 and 1973.1974: Nairobi University where he graduated with a Bachelor of Science Degree in 1977.1977: Joined the Ministry of Roads where he rose through the ranks to become Deputy Chief Engineer roads, a position he served until 2008.2009: Kenya National Highways Authority, General manager in charge of special projects.2012: Resigns from Kenha to contest Ndia Parliamentary seat, he is elected at first stab.Quotes2014: I will continue with my duties as a Member of Parliament. I cannot says whether this matter has a political motive but I can say that the assailant had ill-motives and that he knew what he wanted to do. He cut head teacher Samuel Mwangi in the head. The man then continued coming for me, it is at this point that my bodyguard tried to block the attack but the panga-wielding man pushed him to the ground and attempted to cut him but he shot him three times. 2016: The President indicated that we have done 3,000 kilometres. There is assertion that this came from the previous Government. However, the government had the mandate to complete the projects which were started like what we have, the Isiolo-Merille-Marsabit-Moyale Road. The Jubilee Government has a right to take credit because they budgeted for these projects. There is the programme of 10,000 kilometres road which will double the kilometres of tarmac in this country. That is a very big step towards improvement of road infrastructure in this country. So, asserting that the Jubilee Government has not done a lot, is not the truth. 