It is a dilemma for prisoners made to tell on each other in the hope that they will be freed, only to find each has confessed to the crime. Catwalk Anne Waiguru, as she is now referred to by Deputy President William Ruto, famously told the world on prime time TV that it is not illegal to own several companies that bid for the same contract.As Devolution and Planning CS, she was sure that is a strategy to increase one s chances of landing a contract. The concern was companies owned by one individual were hogging all the contracts at the National Youth Service. No money was stolen, she told ignorant Kenyans. Then the whole government, from State House to the Deputy President and MPs, became her defence attorneys.Ruto s was the most colourful defence. There are those who like to oppose everything. Leo yule jamaa [Raila] anamangamanga huku na kule juu ya NYS. Tunataka kumwabia awache porojo na akiwa na shida na Waiguru, let him come face me and Uhuru, a confident Ruto submitted.Then enter Josephine Kabura, an unassuming suddenly shrewd businesswoman with 20 companies to her name in a short span and a billionaire in days. Alone she carted away Sh1.8 billion of NYS money from banks in gunny bags. The companies, she says in an affidavit, belonged to Waiguru. She was just Waiguru s hairdresser. Woi! cries Waiguru. I don t know that woman, sounding more like Bill Clinton denying sexual contact with Monica Lewinsky.No sooner had she said that than the loudmouths in Jubilee became suspiciously quiet, until this week when catwalk Waiguru talked about a puppeteer stringing Kabura along. She did not name the puppeteer but pointed the PAC to the Office of the Deputy President. No names yet but one Farouk Kibet, who made hundreds of phone calls worth Sh1 million to another culprit, seemed to be Deputy President Ruto s shadow.Now Ruto has stopped defending Waiguru, saying she should not strut her wares around pointing fingers at him. He prays she should carry her own cross and that means - as Trump would say of Hillary - there is enough evidence to lock her up. For both Ruto and Waiguru times have changed, but their fortunes have remained the same.How I wish the guessing game by the prosecutorial agencies would stop. Like the Deputy President, I see evidence everywhere but no one willing to bell the cat. Who would, anyway, with one scam after another on an almost daily menu? ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi is so scandalised that he has turned to superstition for an explanation. This Jubilee regime is cursed. The Jubilee experiment is a disaster. Everything it does is laced with corruption. As the government fumbles to cover up the alleged misappropriation of Sh5.3 billion at the Ministry of Health, Mudavadi wants a forensic audit of the Sh38 billion Managed Equipment Service project (Tiba Mashinani) forced onto county governments, and its beneficiaries revealed.Mudavadi takes no prisoners as he names names something other politicians threaten to do but never actually do. Apparently, the taxpayer has forked out Sh10 billion to service a lease contract whose implementation is anything but pleasant. Before the Presidency can digest that, their nemesis comes banging with another secret tunnel. This time it travels miles from Kericho to Nakuru so that this desertification by Jubilee is not just about hauling away cash.