Two people died and scores of others were injured when violence broke out at a function attended by Kiambu Governor William Kabogo and his Murang a counterpart Mwangi Wairia.John Mwangi, a teacher from Embu, was shot dead by police officers who were struggling to restore sanity, while the second unidentified man was stoned to death by an angry mob after word spread that he was robbing people at the function on Sunday.The event at Thika Stadium was organised by Kikuyu gospel musician Muigai Njoroge, who was launching his latest DVD Wakwa Wa Muico (My last one).A police source said the teacher who died was hit by a stray bullet when the officers were dispersing the rowdy youth. The other people were hardcore thugs. Despite lobbing teargas at them they didn t leave, but went on robbing locals, the officer said.Mayhem broke out when Kabogo left the pitch with other dignitaries who had attended the event and a group of youth went rowdy, claiming that the governor had left without giving them "tips". We are used to getting tips from him whenever we attend his meetings. Why has he left without even talking to us? a young man shouted.The raucous youths started beating up and robbing people who had attended the event, forcing police officers to lob teargas canisters at them and shoot in the air to disperse them.The youths engaged the police in running battles for more than an hour and disrupted transport along Stadium Road and Kenyatta Highway.Residents told the Star that the youth were a group of thugs who had come from the Kiandutu slums aiming to rob and mug people. I was accosted by six young boys aged approximately 16-17 years. They threatened to kill me if I failed to give them my phone and money. I had to part with my belongings since they seemed serious and were armed with knives and broken bottles," resident Philip Kiarie said. "This is not the first time the thugs have attacked locals in broad day light. They did the same last year when John DeMathew was celebrating his 20 years in music. Some residents claimed, however, that the fracas was politically fuelled. They said rival politicians used the youth to cause chaos.Earlier, Kabogo alleged that some people had hired the youth to rob people and disrupt the event. I apologise to those who have been robbed. It s the work of certain people who didn t want this event to be held, he said.The bodies are at General Kago Funeral Home.