Yusuf Noah aka Refigah, is for sure one of the most popular Kenyan showbiz gurus.The youthful chap owns one of the region's top record labels, Grandpa Records.Read: Grandpa Records extends Fimbo Ya Nne auditions beyond NairobiIn 2014, he splashed not less than Sh3.5 million on his three-day grand wedding with Mahandia Omar.Just over a year later, the lovely couple was blessed with a son, whom they named Sultan.On Wednesday, the adorable baby boy turned one-year-old and Refigah couldn't calm down. It was his firstborn's birthday!However, he chose not to spend a fortune on the celebrations, for reasons well known to him.We spoke with him and he shed light on why he threw just modest birthday celebrations for his son.He had this to say: "Imagine we didn't organise a bash. It was just lunch for family and friends which was attended by around 35 people at our home at five star gardens. It was majorly prayers. To be honest, it was a big trial for us during the pregnancy, so I decided we do it as a prayer session to just say thank you to God."Refigah's son Sultan.Also Read: Ugandan songstress Cindy Sanyu signs with Kenya's Grandpa RecordsHe adds that it was a great feeling to see his son turn one year, considering the stressing times the couple went through when Mahandia was pregnant.He says: "We were always in and out of hospital but God is great. Despite all that, I believed that my son will be a great person. But his photos will never be on social media again until his next birthday."I don't believe in posting everything about my child on social media. When he grows up, he will decide what to post and what not to post for himself."Personally, I don't really like putting so much on social media about my personal life and that's why I did not follow the so-called trend of opening social media accounts for him."Read: Grandpa Records: Beware of con artists!Read Also: EXCLUSIVE! Is music producer Visita lying about his new record label? However, Refigah says that spending time with his son helps him tap into his younger mind."But I still struggle as a parent. I struggle to be present. I struggle to be patient. I struggle to remember. Almost every single day."Every parent battles with parenthood in their own way, because parenting is not easy," he says. See more photos below.Refigah with his son Sultan.Sultan.Sultan's birthday cake.The modest birthday celebrations.Photos/COURTESY