OPPOSITION supremo Raila Odinga has always been a trailblazer, even when the trail led nowhere fast and resulted in years of personal adversity. A good example was his self-confessed role in August 1 1982 attempted coup by elements of the Kenya Air Force against the then four-year-old Moi administration. Daniel arap Moi would go on to rule for 20 more years and Raila to spend nine years in detention without trial.RAILA THROWS AWAY THE PROTOCOL FORMBOOK, TRUMP STYLEIn recent weeks as the extent of corruption in the national government has been exposed in the media, Raila has played trailblazer by going straight for President Uhuru Kenyatta s jugular in a manner never before seen in our politics. When news of the Ministry of Health so-called Mafya House scandal broke and Uhuru s kid sister Nyokabi Muthama and cousin Kathleen Kihanya were adversely implicated, Raila sought to enlarge the debate by depicting the Kenyatta family and all its extensions as the kings of graft.Not even Mwai Kibaki ever did that to Moi, not even in 2002, the year he fell Kanu, ending a 39-year run in office.Raila loves being head and shoulders above everyone else in the room (or the teeming stadium), especially in the matter of the race for the Cord presidential flagbearer, but this time he has breached all known protocol. None of the other major opposition leaders has attacked Uhuru in this bare-knuckle way.Kalonzo played a gracious and humorous host to the President and Deputy President William Ruto when they took the Majushaa Day official celebrations to Machakos county on October 20.On Sunday in Oledeem village, Narok North constituency, Kanu national chairman Gideon Moi, who is also the senator from Baringo, went out of his way to defend President Kenyatta against corruption allegations. Saying he had known Uhuru at a personal level since boyhood, Gideon said he was confident the President is has no truck with corruption. Uhuru is a good President who means well for this country. I have grown up with him and he is my friend. He is not a thief but those around him are the problem, Gideon said.Echoing Gideon s sentiments, former Kenya National Congress leader Peter Kenneth, who said, The government is not corrupt. It is some few individuals who are corrupt. Those who will be found culpable of corruption should be jailed without the option of a fine .Gideon and Kenneth shared the podium with Raila in Oledeem on the occasion of the homecoming ceremony in honour of Anglican Church of Kenya Archbishop Jackson ole Sapit.Raila remarked that the Jubilee administration had become self=defensive about the corruption explosion on its watch and then declared, This Jubilee government has eaten too much. It is high time Kenyans took out their identification and voters cards to send them home .Raila s animus towards Uhuru has surprised many on all sides of the political divide. Kalonzo, Gideon and Kenneth s diplomatic postures on runaway corruption on Jubilee s watch contrasts starkly with Raila s Donald Trump-like approach. Trump called Hillary Clinton a liar and a crook throughout the campaign trail and organized for women who have claimed her husband forced himself on them to attend a presidential debate in an attempt to distract and humiliate her.The Jubilee faithful read both malevolence and desperation in Raila s Trump-like stance. Malevolence because of the long history of adversarial politics between the Odinga and Kenyatta political dynasties and desperation because the opposition appear to be ready to amalgamate into the National Super Alliance along the lines of the National Rainbow Coalition of 2002.CORNERING THE 9,693,539-VOTE MANThe Nasa idea seems to be the brainchild of Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi, a deeply conflicted figure who comes from a community that is second only to the Kikuyu in terms of vote bloc size but nowhere near as cohesive and focused when it comes to Election Day turnouts. Mudavadi is convinced that if he were to be made the opposition flagbearer, the Luhya would vote for him to the latest school leaver with ID and voter cards and that this would result in at least a runoff, the most dangerous prospect for Jubilee and Uhuru next to a Round One defeat.Kalonzo, leader of the Wiper Party that has its epicenter in Ukambani, a million-plus vote bloc, appears to be Raila s major headache just now. Kalonzo has painted Raila as basically unelectable and has repeatedly said he and the Kamba do not want another five-year electoral cycle out in the cold. Kalonzo is convinced that he can defeat Uhuru in Round One if the opposition unites totally behind him.If Mudavadi is basically conflicted, then Raila is in agony. Raila garnered a total of 9,693,539 votes at the 2007 and 2013 general elections. In 2007 Kalonzo garnered only 879,903 votes in the Presidential race and Mudavadi only 483,981 at the 2013 race. The winning sides (Kibaki of PNU and Uhuru of Jubilee) received a total of 10,693,539 votes for the 2007 and 2013 polls. Raila s achievement, a difference between both totals of only 1,064,615, is no mean feat. In contrast, Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang ula are completely untested and their bloated egos, sense of entitlement and paranoia count for little, if anything. And yet there they are taunting Raila, telling him he is a serial loser and will almost certainly lose the most important general election in Kenyan history thus far the 12th edition now scheduled for August 8, 2017.Making Kalonzo, Mudavadi or Wetang ula the flagbearer means passing the baton of Raila s phenomenal but losing performance in the last two consecutive Presidential races to persons who have never seen a million votes toted up to their names.Kalonzo has his own problems, right inside Wiper, as demonstrated by the acrimonious falling out with Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama a fortnight ago. As political paranoia tiffs go, the Kalonzo-Muthama version was spectacular.Out of the blue, Kalonzo accused Muthama, for years Wiper s principal financier, of working behind his back to hand the Cord unified Presidential nomination ticket to Raila. Kalonzo specifically accused Muthama of colluding with Siaya Senator James Orengo to hand the flag to Raila.A couple of days later, Muthama skipped the Wiper Party National Delegates Conference and attended all-day meetings at Raila s Capitol Hill offices, saying the matters under discussion there were weightier than the NDC proceedings. Muthama was conspicuously flanked by Orengo.While the pundits are agreed that Kalonzo cannot possibly lose in a head-on collision with Muthama, this falling out only serves to diminish the prospects of a united opposition. Having vanquished Raila s high-profile mole inside Wiper, the former VP cannot meaningfully join hands with the former VP.Meanwhile, inside Ford Kenya, the party of the third Cord principal, Moses Wetang ula, two parallel and irreconcilable National Delegates conferences, one in Nairobi and one in Thika were planned, thereby dashing his hopes of becoming a contender for Cord flagbearer.Governor Kenneth Lusaka laughed out loud against Wetang ula s prospects, saying, among other things, that the senator simply does not have the numbers even within Cord itself. Describing Wetang ula s Ford-K as a minority in Cord, he said the party is more of a regional outfit compared to ODM, which is more established and has networks countrywide.Lusaka declared, Let s face it. Wetang ula has remote or zero chances of getting the Cord ticket. It is a tall order and it is good to be realistic, rather than cheating ourselves. WAVING TO THE TREES AND BIRDS IN KAKAMEGA Lusaka twisted the knife, saying Raila and Kalonzo have better chances than a man whose party s fortunes are dwindling every other day, thanks to the many defections in Ford-K. How many governors does he have? Those are the indicators. It is painful but the truth must be told. The other day he was busy waving to the trees and birds in Kakamega, because people failed to attend his function, he said.Lusaka concluded being overambitious is delusional and dangerous.By installing only two of its top leaders in party positions (President Uhuru and Deputy President Ruto) and having no Presidential nominations, Jubilee is travelling light ahead of the titanic contest that will likely go the way of all past events. A general election has an attrition rate of 70 to 80 per cent: The majority of the Governors, MPs, senators and MCAs on both sides are unlikely to be reelected. The only candidates JP will prop up are the President and the DP. The Cord-Nasa ticket is not known less than a year to Election Day.Whether this makes the JP nominations much cleaner and more democratic than Cord-Nasa s remains to be seen. It matters a very great deal indeed which side is seen to have free and fair nominations and an eminently electable team. In fact, this could make all the difference.Will Cord-Nasa clean up its act in time for what promises to be an epic General Election? Or will they trip themselves up by scattering their strengths and falling to the JP juggernaut?