Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho is an "academic dwarf with a questionable degree" that has caused him to oppose the set up of a dry port, DP William Ruto has said.Ruto also raised questions on the Governor's wealth, saying, without elaborating, that: "I don't do that business. I fear God," he said on Sunday.""If you have money - briefcases or sacks full of cash - 'that is yours'. I don't have time for that," said the DP.He spoke at Mombasa Women's Hall and during the official launch of Jubilee Party's Coast chapter at Tononoka grounds at the weekend.Read: Joho faces new threat to degreeAlso read: Joho degree genuine, says Uganda varsityJoho in his response to Ruto said there are institutions in the country and outside that determine the authenticity of any academic certificates."Telling people the truth about his (Ruto's) character doesn't amount to a contest. Ruto should make public an agreement between KPA, SGR and government over the SGR since KPA has been made to pay for it...he maintains that coastal people will not be marginalised by the issue of dry port." "Who is he to determine my credentials? He should tell people the truth. KPA is being burdened,' Joho said.The Governor has been rejecting plans to set up a dry port in Naivasha, saying jobs will be lost and that clearing agents will be most affected.Seventy per cent of Kenya s imports currently end up in Nairobi from the Port of Mombasa, a process that sees high transport costs incurred. Businesses also end up inconvenienced and pass costs on to customers.The government said there was need to bring services closer to customers by, for example, introducing dry ports in Naivasha and other locations.But Joho said, during ODM's 10th anniversary celebrations, that the Jubilee government was out to "finish" the county. He said it did not make economic sense to create a dry port in a county that has a sea port.The Governor also noted that crucial port services will be transferred to Naivasha via the Standard Gauge Railway. This, he said, will leave the coastal city without major activities and turn it into a ghost town as thousands will be rendered jobless.Read: Dry port in Naivasha will harm the Coast But the Deputy President said those with "questionable papers" cannot understand port operations, and that the port handles both imports and exports."I hear some people here in Mombasa are opposed to the dry port. Those are the effects of buying (academic) papers," he said at MWH.Joho's academic documents have been challenged in court since 2013 after claims emerged that he forged papers and bought them.But a court declared that he had a genuine decree from Kampala International University.ODM luminaries, especially from his county, have echoed Joho's sentiment regarding the dry port.Party leader Raila Odinga said the project was part of Jubilee's wider scheme to "hurt" the Coast economy and stifle development.Kakamega Senator Bonny Khalwale expressed support for Joho during ODM's 10 at 10 celebrations in Mombasa.But Ruto said the government was determined to establish dry ports in Nairobi, Naivasha and Kisumu and faulted ciritics for arguing unreasonably.To Joho, whom he accused of consistent attacks, he said: "I am not in contest with you." But the Governor said in Kilifi on Sunday that Ruto had no moral authority to "lecture" Coast residents.Joho has been attacking the DP saying he (Ruto) was not his match. He said he will defeat Ruto hands down in the 2022 race for the presidency.The county boss, whose relationship with Raila has solidified in the run up to the 2017 general election, is expected to vie on an ODM ticket. Ruto's plan is to run for the top seat on a Jubilee Party tickets after President Uhuru Kenyatta finishes his second term.Read: Coast region will not vote for Uhuru, Ruto - JohoAnalysts said Joho's scathing attack on Ruto was part of his plan to discredit him ahead of the 2022 electionThe Mombasa chief has told off JP leaders including Uhuru and Ruto, sayign he cannot be 'bought'."I'm too expensive for you. You cannot buy me. I have my own money," Joho said at Mama Ngina Drive during ODM's celebrations on September 10.[VIDEO] I am way too expensive to be bought by Jubilee, says Joho