Principal Secretary in the Ministry of Sports, Culture and the Arts has accused the Rio Probe Committee of a witch-hunt, claiming there is factual misrepresentation of his role in the steering committee.Ekai said the report quotes him as the chairman of the steering committee, which he disputes claiming his boss, Cabinet Secretary for Sports Hassan Wario was indeed the chair. I was baffled by reports that I was the chairman of the Local Steering Committee. This was the role held by the CS and I was only acting on his behalf whenever he was absent orhad to leave meetings earlier than planned, said Ekai. To this effect, all the other members of the committee had appointment letters from the CS but I never had one. Ekai was also suspicious of the manner in which the report was being hidden from him despite being a key member of the planning team at the ministry. I have not seen the report and I am just trying to piece together the details as reported in the media, said Ekai. I have been in government for long and I have never seen a situation where a report can come here and I am not aware about it. The PS observed that claims he was the leader of a 12-man incompetent steering committee was malicious.In addition to not being the chair, the team was made up of more than 12 officials including Joe Okudo (Principal Secretary), Kipchoge Keino, Francis K. Paul, Stephen Soi, Fridah Shiroya, Julius Ogeto (Noc-k, Denis Omondi, Agnes Oluoch, Elijah Aliero (KNPC), Gordon Oluoch (Acting Director, Sports Kenya) James Waweru, Japhter Rugut, (Adak), Harun Komen (Director Administration, Mosca), Maina Kamau (Department of Sports), Stephen Muthuma (Chief Finance Officer, MOSCA), Rose Wasike (Sports Registrar), Jaxon Indakwa (CEO, Sports Fund), Duncan Ashubwe (Procurement Officer, Mosca), Paul Ikuua (Finance Officer, Mosca), Enock Onditi (Head of Accounting Unit, Mosca) and Agnes Nyakiba (Director HR, Mosca).He also refuted claims of sabotaging the probe committee by withholding their allowances. Like I said, I had not seen the report neither had I received instructions to go ahead with the payments from the appointing authority, he said.