Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton on Wednesday conceded her election loss to Republican Donald Trump and said she offered to work with the president-elect."Last night I congratulated Donald Trump and offered to work with him on behalf of our country. I hope that he will be a successful president for all Americans," Clinton told supporters and staff at a Manhattan hotel."Donald Trump is going to be our president. We owe him an open mind and the chance to lead," she said.She said that the election revealed that the country is more deeply divided that it was first thought following the bruising campaign in the race to the White House."We have seen that our nation is more deeply divided than we thought. Our responsibility as citizens is to keep doing our part to build that better, stronger, fairer America we seek. And I know you will," Clinton said."Our constitutional democracy demands our participation, not just every four years, but all the time," she said.Clinton added that she still believes in America and will always want the citizens to remember that the campaign was never about one person or even one election."It was about the country we love. You represent the best of America, and being your candidate has been one of the greatest honors of my life," she said."This is not the outcome we wanted. I m sorry we did not win this election for the values we share and the vision we hold for our country," Clinton added.She added that her hope is that Trump will be a successful president for all Americans.She acknowledged the support by her husband Bill, daughter Chelsea, and kins Marc, Charlotte, Aidan as well all those who took part in the campaign."To Barack and Michelle Obama, our country owes you an enormous debt of gratitude. We thank you for your graceful, determined leadership," Clinton said."Let us have faith in each other. Let us not grow weary. Let us not lose heart. For there are more seasons to come and...more work to do," she told her supporters in an emotional speech that was drained in cheers from the crowd."We are stronger together and will go forward together. And you should never, ever regret fighting for that," she said, "I am grateful to our country for all it has given me. I count my blessings every day that I am an American,"Clinton also encourage young girls and women who might have been disappointed with the outcome of the polls."To all the little girls watching...never doubt that you are valuable and powerful and deserving of every chance and opportunity in the world," she said, "To all the women...who put their faith in this campaign and in me...nothing has made me prouder than to be your champion.""We have still have not shattered that highest and hardest glass ceiling. But some day, someone will," Clinton added, "This loss hurts. But please never stop believing that fighting for what s right is worth it,"