Elected Ukambani leaders who ditched Wiper party for Jubilee have scoffed at plans to subject them to disciplinary proceedings.The party led by Kalonzo Musyoka formed and ordered a disciplinary committee of five to summon the seven defectors. The committee comprises of lawyer Haroun Ndubi (Chairman), Lilian Omondi, Mutheu Muna, Abubakar Yusuf and Jacob Mutula.More on this: Wiper to punish 8 rebel lawmakers and a governorThe leaders to be investigated are Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua, MPs Regina Ndambuki (Kilome), Joe Mutambu (Mwingi Central) and John Munuve of Mwingi North constituency. Others are MPs Kisoi Munyao (Mbooni), Richard Makenga (Kaiti) and nominated MP Robert Mutemi.Members of county assemblies perceived to have shifted their allegiance to other parties will also be summoned.They will be called to explain why they should not be expelled from the party and their seats declared vacant. They will be given an opportunity to defend themselves before the party begins the process of seeking their removal from their respective offices.Read: Kalonzo urges Wiper rebels to leave partyWiper secretary general Hassan Omar Hassan said: "If found to have acted against the electoral and party regulations, the party will write to the Registrar of Political Parties and the Speaker to expel them and declare their seats vacant to pave way for mini polls."But the leaders told off the party on Wednesday, Mutambu saying he was not a member "and I have no business with their foolishness".Munuve said he was ready for by-elections if the Mwingi North seat is declared vacant."Residents of Mwingi North have for the last 30 years been electing a king they could not talk to because he had even moved to Machakos county. But today they have a leader they can access. They call me and we discuss their issues.""The seat I hold does not belong to Wiperbut the people of Mwingi North. I will seek re-election under Jubilee Party and people will elect a leader they can see and talk to. Wiper is behaving like a monkey. They are only aping what ODM did the other day," he further told the Star by phone.Ndambuki said the party ejected her from a retreat in Maanzoni lodge, Machakos county, and that she and Mutemi were nearly lynched by goons on August 30 last year."I recorded videos and audios of everything said at the meeting. I am ready to defend myself in court or anywhere they will take me because it is they who called me a Jubilee mole and told me never to attend any of their meetings," Ndambuki said."People want development and are not interested in cheap party politics of who swears allegiance to which party."Munyao said he was ready to be subjected to any decision the party will make. He said he had quit the party and was waiting for official letters."I am not a watermelon; I make solid decisions. I had consulted widely before making the decision to move to Jubilee and I have the support of my people," he added.Also read:A 'wiper wave' will sweep rebels in 2017, Kalonzo warns, Mutua skips party meeting