Today I cut my armband.My Kenyan flag armband that I bought in Naivasha six years ago had to go.When I bought it from a Maasai hawker in 2011 it was out of pride for being a Kenyan.It travelled with me to a number of foreign countries and I never had to introduce my country. People would look at it and say" Oh you are Kenyan".It is that easy for foreigners to notice the colours of the Kenyan flag as athletes have placed a mark on several world stages.For all the six years I had the band, it never occurred to me that I would ever be labelled a tenderpreneur (a word we use for the inflation of tenders to make a quick buck).But two weeks ago while in Johannesburg with my pride - the armband - I met two Kenyans, one with the wristband.The other one asked why we were wearing the symbol of "Jubilee identity".I was taken aback. Never in the six years had I thought of my armband as that. Of course I defended the flag and told my friend it symbolised pride.The Kenyan flag is ours and no one has a right to it but us.Kenyans have worn the armband with pride for years but it may have gotten more mileage after President Uhuru Kenyatta came to power.It is often seen on both of the President's arms at local and international functions, whether somber or upbeat.But Kenyans took to social media on Monday and dismissed the armbands, saying those who wore them were tenderpreneurs.This was after Uhuru's Cousin, Kathleen Kihanya, appeared for a press conference on corruption allegations raised against her. In fact she had two.I had thought of doing away with the armband after being deemed a Jubilee supporter in Johannesburg, but being linked to corruption was too much for me. I made up my mind to cut the band off my wrist. I cut it today. I felt the loss of nationhood, allowing the corrupt few to steal even our identity.I felt we had lost our souls by terming the colours of our flag the mark of corruption.And then later in the day, I saw a Facebook post by Nailab CEO Sam Gichuru. He made a passionate case for the arm band, and I regretted destroying mine. Sam Gichuru's viewAnyone who travels a lot knows the loneliness that follows. You're in a foreign country, you see someone with this band and your heart leaps... You want to run and say an excited "Sasa!" and give them that (brother) a hug.This band is not representative of Jubilee or tenderprenuers. Nobody told anyone to wear it, there was no campaign. We were not told to "wear it and jivunie kuwa mkenya (take pride in being Kenyan)".Most Kenyans in the Diaspora wear it and they are not chasing after government contracts; it is their identity, which makes it very sad that the same people who claim to fight for Kenya online, destroy it for retweets and jokes.We wore this band and found an identity with it that we own, that we can use to unify and change the country. For once we have something that is positively Kenyan, not a national dress or cuisine, just a simple hand band that anyone from any tribe, colour or religion can wear as a form of identity, or happily (give as a) gift to a visiting friend.Did I mention it's not made and sold by big brands but by humble women who feed their families from that (Sh200) we spend on it.So when I see someone driving an idiotic negative narrative, trying to politicise it or give it a tribe, taking away the one positive identity we have and in the process attempting to killing an entire source of livelihood for the women countrywide, I want to slap someone back to the dinosaur age.Your jokes might be funny to you but not to the woman whose income will drop.Share this and keep your hand band. It's your flag, your identity. Use it to remind yourself why we must keep fighting against corruption and tribal politics, not to mention stupidity.