Importers, clearing agents and politicians yesterday raised concerns over increased taxes on imported cargo at the Port of Mombasa.The importers, under the umbrella of the Kenya International Freight and Warehousing Association, said two months ago the Kenya Revenue Authority increased taxes for all imports without consulting stakeholders. Kifwa secretary general Bernard Simiyu said KRA has raised taxes on imported food, tyres, and household goods. For example, initially someone was paying $US200 (about Sh20,000) for one tonne of general cargo, the amount has been raised to $US580 (about Sh58,000) per tonne. This has made it impossible for clearing agents to clear goods at the port leading to a backlog, he said.Simiyu said they have tried to engage the KRA officials at the Southern region offices in Mombasa, but nothing has been done. We had several meeting to propose changes, but the next day you find a totally different thing on the ground. The meeting can be termed to be just cosmetic, he said.Simiyu said the cost of doing business has gone high, forcing some clearing agents and Container Freights Stations to close down.He spoke during a press conference at Kifwa offices in Mombasa. Simiyu was accompanied by MPs Abdulswamad Nassir (Mvita), Badi Twalib (Jomvu) and Omar Mwinyi (Changamwe) and the association officials.Nassir, Twalib and Mwinyi said the office of KRA Commissioner General should be opened in Mombasa to fast-track the process of cargo clearance. The KRA officers stationed in Mombasa cannot make any decision. They have to wait for directive from Nairobi, Nassir said.He said he will submit a Kifwa MoU to the National Assembly to have the problems facing importers addressed by the Act of Parliament.Mwinyi said, The port operations have been politicised, making it impossible for officers to do their work independently. Why do we need a presidential directive at KRA and KPA? He said if the office of the KRA Commissioner General cannot be opened in Mombasa, then the southern regional manager should be given more powers to make decisions. What is lacking at the KRA Mombasa office is that the officers cannot make any decision. A very small issue that can be resolve by a clerk has to be referred to Nairobi, Mwinyi said.Twalib said they will support Kifwa to be given special positions in the boards of KRA, KPA and at the Kenya Maritime Authority. These people need to be consulted on anything that affects port business, he said.