ODM rebels who were expelled owe Orange House Sh12.5 million in unpaid monthly contributions, a debt that impairs party operations.This has forced ODM to write to Registrar of Political Parties Lucy Ndung u seeking her intervention to compel the renegades to clear their arrears.They include Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya. A party cannot operate offices and keep the government on check without money to fund its activities, office operations and recruitment of members, ODM executive director Oduor Ong wen said. We need this money like yesterday. The Orange House boss told the Star on the phone the rebels must be forced to pay the money because the party has served them diligently in their careers. The office of the Registrar of Political Parties said it will respond to us after receiving and going through the letter, he said.Mvurya owes sh1.5mMvurya owes the party Sh1.5 million, nominated MP Isaac Mwaura Sh560,000, Igembe Central MP Kubai Iringo Sh110,000 and Kilifi North s Gideon Mung aro Sh262,500.Others are Sirisia MP John Waluke (owing Sh610,000 ), Karachuonyo s James Rege (Sh410,000 ), Mathare s Steven Kariuki (Sh460,000 ) and Nakuru West lawmaker Samuel Arama (Sh330,000 ). The amount does not include annual subscription for elected officials, who are supposed to be life members of the party. Budalang i MP Ababu Namwamba cleared his dues and is free to move on, Ong wen said.Other MPs who have not cleared their pending monthly subscriptions include Kwale woman representative Zainab Chidzuga (Sh225,000 ) and Kitutu Chache South s Richard Onyonka (Sh600,000 ).The balance is owed by other ODM elected officials. Some only owe the party a month s arrears. We will move to the [Political Parties Dispute Resolution] Tribunal if they have failed to respond and the verdict might be harsh. We are happy with those who have started to pay, ODM chairperson John Mbadi said. He said on top of the Sh12 million, other legislators owe the party huge amounts of money. Those who were elected and want to seek reelection on the ODM ticket, must clear their dues immediately to be eligible for the nominations, Mbadi said.Early this week, ODM formally wrote to Ndung u on the expulsion of 10 rebel members. Ong wen further asked national and county assembly speakers copied in the letter to declare the rebels seats vacant. The meeting unanimously passed a resolution to have the members listed expelled from the party, the letter read. I request you to delist them from the register of ODM members. Ong wen said the party reached the resolutions after receiving a report from its National Disciplinary Committee.He said the National Executive Council adopted the report on October 30, a day before the rebels were expelled. ODM wants to trigger by-elections by having the rebels deregistered.Coast politicians defiantBut Coast politicians who have already moved to Jubilee have said they are not afraid of by-elections. Mung aro said he is ready for party disciplinary action.He said he will stand with those who have been expelled and wait for his lawyer s advice on whether to meet the ODM disciplinary committee. This has been a separation period. If there will be a divorce, the announcement will be made when the time comes, Mung aro said.Chidzuga dismissed her expulsion, saying the NEC, which endorsed the NGC decision, is in office illegally.