When it rains in Nairobi, and even around the countryside, it reminds us of just how murky our city and country are. It starts with pools of water because drains are blocked or simply nonexistent. Then traffic grinds to a halt as everyone gets stuck. Finally, you smell it; that stench that makes the stomach turn, as storm water mixes up with raw sewer. Welcome to the City in the Sun! All I really need to know I learnt in the kindergarten is a book by Robert Fulghum that reminds us that wisdom is not the product of the graduate-school but the application of elementary Sunday school life lessons. Lessons such as how to share with others; how to put things back where you found them; how to clean up your own mess, to wash your hands before eating and how to flush! These were hammered into us in an oft-repeated mantra that cleanliness is next to godliness . It is baffling then that a society that claims advanced education and lofty godly faith continues to wallow in a social and infrastructural sty. Carolyn Steel in Hungry City points out to the close connection between physical filthiness in public matters and moral wickedness. The state of our neighbourhoods depicts the state of our hearts. To eradicate corruption in government we may need to start by sweeping our city clean.Some elementary Sunday school lessons remind us that our mouths speak out of the abundance of our hearts (minds). Further, the great teacher, Jesus, when He was challenged that the disciples had eaten a meal without washing their hands, taught that it is not what goes into a man that makes him dirty but that which comes out of his heart. Our hands act out what we have conceived within. Our leaders seem to have completely missed the lesson in sharing and tend to interpret life in terms of self. If one has all the money, can get treatment from any hospital in the world and can be offered the Recce Squad for security, then the country is safe, healthy and fully provided for. They can go ahead and steal every coin available for the social good to satisfy their greed.When the President tells the whole world there is nothing he can do about corruption he is being honest; there is nothing he can do to change our hearts. Equally, the opposition can do nothing even though they go shouting from everyrooftop, seeing that there is some kind of corruption that they condone and defend, that which is within their circles. Our insane driving in the rain epitomised in matatu culture is the depiction of our social morass. The fact that both the city and central governments cannot figure out how to open up the city roads for smooth traffic flow is an indictment of our corruption and ineptness. We cannot expect roads to be built and drains to be fixed if such simple tasks as garbage collection cannot be done and littering, especially of non-biodegradable polythene, looks like a hobby. One of the regulations Moses gave to Israel, once they settled on the land flowing with milk and honey, is to have a shovel by which they would dig into the ground and bury their excrement so that they do not desecrate the land and keep God from visiting them. Every time rains fall and raw sewer flows in our space reminds us why we look like a god-forsaken nation. Our dirty dealings keep God from visiting us.It is incongruous that a country of highly educated eighty per cent Christians and may be 99 per cent religious, is also almost 90 per cent corrupt.If cleanliness is next to godliness, how close to God can Kenyans claim to be?