The Trump train is cruising toward victory, and shattering a certain glass ceiling may have to wait for another era.Donald Trump cruised to presidential victories on Tuesday night in Ohio, Georgia, North Carolina and Florida, as he toppled a line of dominoes that snakes through the eastern US and could end at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.The take-no-prisoners Republican also led former secretary of state Hillary Clinton in Michigan, and New Hampshire, as he looked to nearly run the table in 'swing' states that will determine who succeeds President Barack Obama.As vote-counters put Ohio in Trump's win column, and took it away from Democrat Hillary Clinton President Obama won it twice the New York Times' live presidential forecast gave the billionaire builder an 95 per cent chance of winning the White House.That grew to '&gt;95%', its highest possible number.Aides to Clinton, who hoped to become America's first female president, told Fox News that she was 'expecting a long night'. Clinton's campaign manager John Podesta asked supporters to go home and get some rest.Speaking at Clinton headquarters on Tuesday night, Podesta said Clinton will address her supporters after the the winner is announced."Several states are too close to call, so we're not going to have anything more to say tonight," John Podesta, the campaign manager said.When North Carolina's result was set in stone, the Manhattan ballroom where Trump supporters gathered Tuesday night erupted in screams of 'USA! USA!'As a Florida victory looked imminent, young Trump fans chanted at giant TVs: 'Call it! Call it! Call it!'They exploded in a mass of cheers when the Sunshine State contest was declared over. A few threw their red 'Make America Great Again' hats in the air.If Trump can hold on in other swing states, a race that was widely considered Clinton's to lose could slip out of her grasp. His Florida margin was less than 2 per cent. In North Carolina it was 4. Ohio became a surprising cakewalk, ending in an 11-point runaway.Earlier, before the good news began to trickle in, a senior Trump campaign official admitted to CNN as the results poured in: 'It will take a miracle for us to win.'When the network called the Illinois race in Clinton's favor, the crowd let out loud boos. One woman yelled. 'Lock her up!'Other important states whose winners couldn't be projected immediately included Arizona, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Nevada and Wisconsin.Millions of Americans cast votes Tuesday for the two polarizing candidates who have split much of America into warring camps.Clinton, a former secretary of state, earned victories in California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Illinois, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont, Virginia and the District of Columbia.Virginia looked like a squeaker early: With 81 per cent counted, Clinton led Trump by less than 2,000 votes out of 3 million cast.But many of the late-reporting precincts in the Old Dominion were in four counties where Democrats typically win sizable majorities.Trump, the real estate tycoon, claimed wins in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Idaho, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, West Virginia and Wyoming.Early projections making the rounds online and republished by the Drudge Report news website suggested that 140 million voters are participating, a new record, far exceeding the 131.4 million total in 2008.First-time voters, in particular, are fueling the massive increase. That group is swinging toward Clinton by a 55-37 margin, according to Fox News Channel exit polls. Trump's campaign built its momentum in part on the promise of bringing a 'silent majority' out of the woodwork. All images credited to Reuters.