British PM Harold Wilson famously said, A week is a long time in politics. Consider then how long William Ruto must wait to get anywhere close to fulfilling his dream of ascending to the presidency:First, he cannot run for President in 2017. He has to support President Uhuru Kenyatta one more time, and only then try his luck in 2022. But the longer he takes to make his bid, the more likely others will challenge his dominance in Rift Valley politics. He has at least two challengers Senator Gideon Moi from Baringo county and Governor Isaac Rutto of Bomet county.Both are plainly positioning themselves for a post-William-Ruto political dispensation. And they seem to believe it will come sooner rather than later. Classic Machiavellian politics dictates that such rivals must be brought down while their 'rebellion' is still nascent.In The Prince, Machiavelli said this about the threats that inevitably arise to challenge a leader's grip on power: As the physicians say it happens in hectic fever, that in the beginning of the malady it is easy to cure but difficult to detect, but in the course of time, not having been either detected or treated in the beginning, it becomes easy to detect but difficult to cure. But even greater than this threat in Ruto's own backyard is the question whether he will indeed ever get the support from Central Kenya from the Gema communities without which he cannot hope to be elected President. It is often said to be a simple fact of life that the Big Tribes especially the Kikuyu, the Kalenjin and the Luo have exceptional cohesion when it comes to presidential elections. And that they may be relied on to unite to the last man in support of their presidential candidate, win or lose.But it is actually only the Luo and the Kalenjin who do this they have put all their eggs in one basket right from 1992 and may be expected to do so in 2017.But in 1992, the Kikuyu vote was divided between two candidates (Kenneth Matiba and Mwai Kibaki) and again in 2002 it was deeply divided (between Mwai Kibaki and Uhuru Kenyatta). Kikuyu political unity cannot be taken for granted.So to the extent that Ruto's presidential ambitions depend on 100 per cent support from both his own Rift Valley backyard and Central Kenya, he is actually far more vulnerable than would at first appear to be the case.