Politicians idea of fighting corruption is trading accusations and counter-accusations.They seem to think that the best way for the country to move forward is to reduce the fight to some kind of ping pong game in which barbs are hurled from all directions, and the more the merrier.Fine, politicians will always play politics on any matter as long as the issue at hand gives them an advantage.Corruption is corruption, regardless of the perpetrator. And it stinks. Whether it is committed in the counties or at the national level, it is a bad and unhealthy thing.However, the county governments could be excused: They have no established institutions within their ranks with either the capacity or mandate to fight corruption in terms of apprehending the culprits and ensuring they face the law.Main story: Raila: Uhuru is protecting WaiguruAnd then there is the myth around the opposition protecting the corrupt. The opposition lacks the official legitimacy or the machinery to fight corruption. You cannot expect the opposition to arrest anybody, whether the crime committed is small or big. The role of securing the State in this country is sequestered at the national level and the national government enjoys this power exclusively. Institutions such as the Ethics and Anti Corruption Commission, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, and the Judiciary and others are all controlled from the centre.Although being seen to be independent is important, these institutions cannot ignore Presidential a directive.The President of the Republic is the President of all, including the devolved functions. The Presidency is the guardian angel of the Kenyan nation state, because the institutionis in charge of every aspect of the State.The war on corruption and any other weighty matter of state depends on the holder of the office of the President. The Presidency is above everything and if the President decides to be faithful to the call of his office, the war on corruption will be a resounding success.Even in the ongoing cacophony, we can t say that the war on corruption has been lost entirely due to the political bickering.The war cannot be lost because the institutions mandated to tackle corruption are beyond undue influence by individuals. As it is, these institutions are independent and there is no way that politicians, least of all in the opposition, can influence them in discharging their mandate.Abuba is the chairman of the Political Parties Liaison Committee.