A combined alliance of the Opposition would still not beat the Jubilee Party if elections were held today, a new poll conducted by the Star suggests. The poll shows that 47 per cent of the respondents would vote for Jubilee, which is led by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. The proposed National Super Alliance (NASA) would get 40 per cent of the votes while 13 per cent said they would vote for neither.The poll suggests that there would be a runoff, as Jubilee would not meet the constitutional requirement of a 50-per-cent-plus-one vote to clinch the Presidency. NASA is mooted by Opposition leaders Raila Odinga (ODM), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), and Moses Wetang ula (Ford Kenya).Proponents of NASA believe that a combined Opposition is the best and possibly the only way that they can deny Jubilee a second term. The Opposition leaders are however yet to agree on who should be the flagbearer to challenge Uhuru, who is seeking a second term.At the 2013 elections, Uhuru got 50.5 per cent of the votes, compared to Raila s 43.7 per cent and Mudavadi s 3.9 per cent. The poll, conducted between November 1 and 6, covered six counties with a total sample of 1,200 based on each county s population. The counties covered were Nairobi, Mombasa, Kisumu, Kakamega, Uasin Gishu and Nyeri. In Nairobi, Jubilee leads at 48 per cent against NASA s 38 per cent, while at the Coast, the Opposition leaders are at 68 per cent while the ruling Jubilee Party has 32 per cent.In Rift Valley, Jubilee has 66 per cent while NASA scores 18 per cent. In Central, the rating is 72 per cent for JP and 16 per cent for the massed Opposition. In the Nyanza/Western region, NASA has a popularity of 94 per cent, and Jubilee two per cent.The margin of error was calculated at +/-2.83% at a 95% confidence interval. The Jubilee Party was still dominant over the proposed NASA alliance. This could be due to the fact that the alliance is still not well known among Kenyans and there is no clear candidate or leadership, the Star pollsters explained.For those who support the proposed NASA, the Raila-Kalonzo ticket remains the most popular ( 44 per cent). This was the 2013 ticket too.The Raila-Musalia ticket comes in second at 22 per cent, especially in the Western/Nyanza region. The poll suggests that NASA may have to invite more smaller and regional parties to its fold to enable it to compete with JP.However, it is also possible that the numbers may tilt on either side, depending on who is declared the NASA candidate during the massed Opposition s nominations. Among those who would vote for NASA, 62 per cent say they would do so with the hope that the alliance would fight corruption. Corruption remains Jubilee s biggest challenge. Over half ( 53 per cent) of respondents do not believe UhuRuto on their pledge to fight graft.