RIVALS of former Devolution Cabinet Secretary Anne Waiguru in Kirinyaga are in celebratory mood after Deputy President William Ruto told her off just days after she linked his office to the NYS scandal. A key campaigner for one of her rivals told Corridors they are very happy with that development, as they can use it against her. Their plan is to portray her as against the Deputy President and most likely fight his bid for President in 2022. This, they are hoping, will make voters think that Waiguru is also against President Uhuru Kenyatta - thus automatically massively denying her votes.====A Jubilee aspirant for the Senator from Nairobi went on a heavy drinking spree on Friday night, to the extent of insulting other patrons, including friends. The aspirant was heard ranting that the Jubilee Party was taking hopefuls for granted after the naming of 61 serving MPs and Senators to lead the campaign teams across the country. The aspirant, who is known to drink too much and for bragging about how close to the Jubilee top honchos he is, threatened to lead supporters out of JP if this continued. "How can we be led by people who are not even campaigning? As aspirants, we have been selling the Jubilee Party agenda across the county and then we are given leaders who have no interest. This is unacceptable," the aspirant said.===A senior officer in the parking department at City Hall has been sent on compulsory leave, less than a year since he got his job back following being sacked by Governor Evans Kidero for poor performance. The officer is said to have failed to hit the parking revenue target set by the city boss. Surprisingly, when a task force was appointed to take charge of the sector, the revenue from parking almost doubled.===AN ODM legislator from Northern Kenya, afraid his reelection won't happen, has of late made only technical appearances in Parliament. Corridors is aware that the wealthy politician, who faces a career-threatening onslaught from a newcomer running on the Jubilee Party ticket, has literally pitched camp in his constituency, holding meetings with elders ahead of a key decision by their council next month. The elders, said to be key in deciding who the constituents vote for, is keen on having the flamboyant Jubilee politician succeed the MP at next year's polls. The MP, who is also an ODM official, has been running into headwinds with National Assembly Majority leader Aden Duale. He is also on the spot for having hosted and 'treated' elders last week in his rural home, contrary to the high moral ground set for the elders in picking and endorsing political hopefuls. It will be interesting to see whether the elders settle on the MP or the young and ambitious Jubilee strategist.