Growing up, my parents always taught me to be mindful of other people. They also taught us to love our neighbours as we love ourselves. This is a lesson I have held very dearly in my life since my days as a student at Kubu Kubu Memorial Boarding School in Kagaari North ward, Runyenjes. Right now, I am a businessman in Runyenjes town and also a youth leader with the Jubilee Party in Embu county.WEEKDAYS0500HRS-0600HRSI usually wake up at 5am every day to pray. This is a lesson I received from my parents since I was a young child. It s also important to renew and strengthen your relationship with God daily.After that, I usually prepare my breakfast. It is always a very simple meal, and quickly made. I am a businessman and also a youth leader. On weekdays, I diligently run my business in Runyenjes town.0600hrs-0700hrs I sell gas cylinders, lubricants, and other gas accessories. So the first task is always to clean the premises and arrange the display area. 0700HRS-0900HRSAfter that, with the help of my workers, I carry out the morning supplies. The rest of the day is the normal work of a businessman striving hard to meet his customers needs. Many people here are trying out LPG gas for cooking because it has become cheaper. So we do our best to give them the best supplies.0900HRS-2000HRSMy shop is open throughout the day, many times till 8pm. There are customers who are busy in their farms during the day, and so we wait to attend to them in the evening after their work.I am also a Jubilee Party youth leader in Embu. Many times, I am called to attend high-level development meetings. At such times, I leave my staff at the shop.WEEKENDS My Saturdays are normally dedicated to the people of Kagaari North. I work closely to raise the economic standards of the people. That s what all leaders must do.I work with different groups, including women groups, youth groups, men and people living with disability. I am particularly passionate about the Access to Government Procurement Opportunities (AGPO) programme.Through this, I have seen many young people become economically stable. This is the greatest satisfaction I get as a leader. I always make sure my people are aware of these opportunities and help them take advantage of them.