IN the past week, a lot of time and intellectual energy have been spent trying to make sense of President-elect Donald Trump s shock victory in the US. As the dust settles, it may be helpful to look ahead, and try and see what the future may hold.Trump s win is a story of fear overturning the audacity of hope, of populism, nativism and other dark forces that shape human collective behaviour.Though he didn t win the popular vote, Trump was never expected to go this far. Yet he did, and the forces shaping this election have a lot to do with demography and nostalgia.Obama was elected on the back of support from racial minorities, young adults, and growing white voting blocs that expanded the Democratic Party s base.But this was stopped, in its tracks, by a blowback of older, white Americans who feared their country was becoming unrecognisable, and longed for working-class prosperity of years gone by.Demographic change happens slowly, and often goes unnoticed until a tipping point is reached and a new reality becomes inevitable. Stepping away from the specifics of the American situation in particular, the bigger story is that Africa is at the heart of a global demographic transition whose implications will only become clear in the coming decades.Today, Africa accounts for 12 per cent of the world s population. Unicef s Generation 2030/Africa Report reveals a massive movement in the world s population towards Africa: By 2050, Africa will be home to two in five of the world s children, and will account for 41 per cent of the world s births.DOUBLE The continent s population will double from the current 1.2 billion to 2.4 billion by 2050, making it home to a quarter of the world s total in relative terms, twice its proportion today.Africa s population is much younger than the rest of the world: Today half are aged under 20 years. By 2050 this median age will have risen to 25, but it will still be below the global average of 36 years.Over the next 35 years, half of the world s total population growth will be concentrated in nine countries, and five of those will be African: Nigeria, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Tanzania and Uganda. These shifts mean that by 2035, the number of people of working age 15-64 in Africa will exceed that of the rest of the world combined, UN data show. This is both due to rapid population growth in Africa, and also because the rest of the world s working age population will start to decline by 2050.The result is that Africa is likely to become a net exporter of people, and its political implications are already being felt in Europe.Over the past two years, the number of migrants crossing into Europe has spiked sharply.Conflict in Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as political instability and repression in places like Eritrea, Ethiopia and Sudan has pushed many to make those dangerous crossings.But Europe s internal demographic decline is a pull factor at the heart of the migrant crisis, which itself has stoked the kind of fear that led to Brexit, and far-right nationalism that we are seeing all over Europe (and is related to Trump s victory). Imagine this: Population estimates from Eurostat in 2013 showed that without migrants, Europe's population would decline from 507.3 million in 2015 to 399.2 million by 2080. In roughly 65 years, a hundred million people, or 20 per cent, would disappear off Europe s soil that is more than the total number of European casualties from World War II. Country by country, the figures are even more startling.By 2080, in Germany, 80 million people today would become 50 million. In Spain, 46.4 million people would drop to 30 million. In Italy, 60 million would decline to 39 million.HARD TRUTH Despite political opposition to immigration, the hard truth is that Europe is currently ageing and shrinking fast, and so has a high demand for people. Furthermore, tough austerity measures in much of southern Europe creates a demand for cheaper workers in Italy, for instance, 85 per cent of Cape Verdean immigrants are women, mostly working as domestic workers.As for Kenya, we are at the start of a demographic transformation. As fertility declines and Kenyans live longer, we will see a dramatic improvement in the dependency ratio: That is, the proportion of the working-age population will grow much faster than the young and elderly population groups that depend on them. This implies that Kenya is in a position to benefit from a demographic dividend; from only 22 million working-age people today, Kenya by 2050 will have about 56 million working-age people. But for this to become a reality, there must be a much higher investment in people in health, education and skills, otherwise, the opportunity will be squandered completely; demographic windows such as this do not last forever.I conclude with a (probably apocryphal) story from South Sudan, where officials vigorously resisted the roll-out of mobile coverage in the country soon after Independence, even if there was nary a shred of telephone connectivity anywhere.Their problem with mobile infrastructure was its lack of visibility, how can people tell that we ve brought development , they asked, if they don t see the poles and wires (of landline telephones)? Because you can t physically see the mobile network, it s more difficult to convert it into political mileage.We must do the dirty work of investing in people. The glamour of mega infrastructure projects will not do. Christine Mungai is a writer, journalist and executive editor of Africa data visualiser and explainer site Africapedia.com