ODM has agreed to review its decision to expel nine rebel members but has been asked to be wary of those who return.Anthony Kibagendi, Kitutu Chache North parliamentary aspirant, said the party led by Raila Odinga must watch out for selfish leaders.Kibagendi said the party needs leaders who are ready to make sacrifices for it.The aspirant referred to Bomachoge Chache MP Simon Ogari and his Kitutu Chache South counterpart Richard Onyonka who apologised to Raila and rejoined the party.He said their return after "flirting" with President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto's Jubilee Party was "suspect". Their return should be treated cautiously. Someone like Onyonka is a pretender. He will go back to his old ways after achieving his goals in ODM, he said.The Kisii county MPs apologised to Raila and ODM supporters during a meeting of the party's governing council at Bomas of Kenya in Nairobi on October 31.More on this: [VIDEO] Rebel MPs Onyonka, Ogari return to ODM, apologise to Raila for joining JubileeKibagendi will battle it out with Onyonka and Jimmy Onkangi for the ODM ticket in Kitutu Chache South.He promised to "shame" Onyonka during the party primaries but called for free, fair and credible nominations. Onyonka has been castigating ODM and Cord leader Raila Odinga in their Kisii unity meetings. He should not be trusted again. Ogari s case is different because he has not been castigating us," he said. Raila does not need these people. He needs a new crop of young, energetic and visionary leaders not people who want to use him for their selfish ends. We as youth should be given an opportunity to demonstrate what we are capable of."In a separate address, Kitutu Masaba MP Timothy Bosire agreed with Kibagendi saying the party needed steadfast leaders. We don t want people who behave like prostitutes said the ODM treasurer.Bosire assured free and fair nominations and said a programme had been released.Read: Ida Odinga hailed for 'dispelling anxiety' over ODM nominations