ODM yesterday expelled nine elected and one nominated leaders, creating room for by-elections across the country, as the party urged Kenyans to initiate change for future generations.The report was unanimously adopted by the National Executive Committee meeting at Orange House on Sunday.Those expelled include Governor Salim Mvurya (Kwale), Joash Maangi (Deputy Governor, Kisii), Steven Kariuki (Mathare MP), Isaac Mwaura (Nominated) and Zainab Chidzuga (Kwale woman representative).Others are Samwel Arama (Nakuru West), Ababu Namwamba (Budalang i), Masoud Mwahima (Likoni), John Waluke (Sirisia) and Samwel Nyangwara (MCA, Viwandani, Nairobi).Speaking at the Bomas of Kenya, Nairobi, yesterday, party leader Raila Odinga said the move to expel rebels was to ensure ODM concentrates on the coming polls, adding Jubilee has failed Kenyans. August 2017 will determine whether this country stays on the path of progress or retreats into permanent retrogression, with the forces of status quo that has been fighting our progress finally taking full control of our destiny, Raila said. Those expelled could lose their seats if the Registrar of Political Parties ratifies the decision of the party s disciplinary committee.ODM said if the Jubilee administration is allowed to rule this country for five more years, it will suppress all the gains made since Independence. We re a social democratic movement. Our vision for Kenya is profoundly different from Jubilee s. We believe in justice, equity, fairness, inclusivity, free speech and the rule of law. All these values have been bastardised in the past four years, Raila said.He said the destiny of the nation is in the hands of the voters who should dictate at next year s election whether they want a prosperous nation or a country that stagnates. Kenya after 2017 and beyond is a heavy agenda that requires we apply commensurate resources; human, intellectual, physical and financial to surmount the challenge. Governing after 2017 might be a bigger challenge than winning the elections, Raila said. Indications are that if ODM does not stand firm, act right, mobilise broadly and wisely, fight hard and smart, if we do not win the 2017 election, Kenya will go the way of Zaire under Mobutu Sese Seko or the route of many other African countries that were brought down by their leaders, he said.Two MPS returnKitutu Chache MP Richard Onyonka and Bomachoge Chache MP Simon Ogari, all from Kisii county, have rejoined ODM. Onyonka said JP, led by President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto, had broken its promises to him. We have realised nothing is going to be done, that the country is taking the wrong direction... that we would rather stay in ODM and work with the party, he said. I take this opportunity to apologise to Raila and all ODM members, he told a cheering crowd at Bomas of Kenya.Those pardoned are Marsabit Governor Ukur Yatani and Igembe Central MP Cyprian Kubai. However, five officials face a disciplinary action. They are Chachu Ganya (North Horr), James Rege (Karachuonyo), Gideon Mung aro (Kilifi North), Mpuri Aburi (Tigania East) and Mustafa Idd (Kilifi South). The 2017 election will determine whether we remain an imperfect democracy trying to improve, or we turn into a full-scale dictatorship, Raila said.The Cord leader said Kenyans should take advantage of the upcoming election to restore the Constitution and address tribalism, nepotism and corruption. Never in the history of this country have we seen so much plunder, theft, impunity, many lies by the government, state-sponsored extrajudicial killings and incompetence in the management of state affairs as we see today, he said.