President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday came out guns-blazing and branded opposition leader Raila Odinga the lord of poverty , coming up with nonexistent issues to gain sympathy.Speaking at the Jubilee Party National Governing Council meeting at the Bomas of Kenya, Uhuru said Raila had mastered the art of coming up with wild claims about government failures.Strategically, the President did not use the official presidential podium that usually bears a crown labelled President of Kenya or Republic of Kenya . Uhuru used the Jubilee Party inaugural NGC meeting to launch a scathing attack on Raila, calling him backward and petty. While never mentioning Raila by name, Uhuru described him as a politician who thrives on propaganda and lies. You must understand the man and his thinking of his backwardness and pettiness... pettiness... pettiness..., Uhuru told the charged crowd. There is a reason he is called the lord of poverty. He thrives on division of Kenyans and poverty. Uwanja wake ni wa matope (His field is muddy). We will not divert from our objectives. Wacha aendelee na matope yake, sisi tuendelee na maendeleo (Let him carry on with his mud, while we carry on with development). Delegates then broke into chants Uhuru kiboko yao and Ruto kiboko yao in praise of the President and Deputy President William Ruto.The President took issue with Raila s claims about the Sh6.8 billion Northern Water Collector Tunnel, which he called tunnels of death He also rejected Raila s allegations of a Sh5.3 billion scandal at the Health ministry.The Jubilee Party leader then went on to preempt Raila s press conference, scheduled an hour later. Even today, he saw us coming to Bomas and decided he wants to share news with us. He now has a press conference in town to claim the dams we are constructing in Kericho and Bomet will dry up the Mau Forest, which is a total lie, Uhuru said. He is trying to divide Kenyans once against by insinuating that the water from Bomet and Kericho is being diverted to Nakuru, which is predominantly occupied by the Kikuyu. The President said Raila hopes to paint Jubilee in a bad light and get sympathy votes from the Rift Valley. He was Prime Minister when the Muranga project started and now he thinks he can win votes from Muranga by peddling lies. Haiwezekani (it is not possible), Uhuru said.He listed achievements of the Jubilee administration, saying his government has provided electricity, free maternity care and improved the country s standing internationally.