Six buildings in Kisii town are disasters waiting to happen and should be vacated, experts have said.Moses Nyakiongora, the secretary of the National Building Inspectorate, said they are carrying out further investigations to determine their safety, and will condemn all unsafe buildings and order their demolition.non-complianceMost buildings being put up in the county are unsafe as some developers do not follow building and safety regulations, he said. We have inspected 4,690 buildings in Nairobi out of which 640 have been found to be unfit for occupation. In Kisii, six of the houses inspected are unfit for occupation, Nyakiongora said.He spoke at the weekend at the site where a house collapsed on Thursday, killing nine people.The secretary said the proprietor of the building illegally increased the number of floors to 10 against the approved five.prosecute for negligenceNational Construction Authority chairman Stephen Oundo said they gave two condemnation orders, which the owner of the building and engineers ignored. To prevent such incidences, the chairman urged the government to give the authority powers to arrest and prosecute those who violate the NCA Act.Legal action will be taken against the owner and those who were given the mandate to supervise the construction of the building, he said.The rescue team led by Lt Joseph Maritim and National Disaster Management Unit deputy director Pius Masai said the operation may end today. We have done 60 per cent of the work. The remaining work can be completed by Tuesday, Masai said.there s still hopeNine people are still missing, he said. Many people are suspected to be trapped in the debris and the true picture will be known after the completion of the rescue operation, he said. The operation is complex, that is why I am requesting for more assistance, especially equipment. Masai said the owner of the building has gone underground.He said the team has rescued a hen from the rubble and expressed optimism that they will save anyone still trapped in the debris.Following the incident, Social Security PS Susan Mochache and Kisii Senator Chris Obure have sent their condolences to the bereaved family. They also wished a quick recovery for those admitted in hospital.They called for speedy investigations and legal action against those responsible for the building collapse.Mochache called for stiffer penalties for those who do not follow regulations.