I think the issue here is not really the Integrated Financial Management Systems (IFMIS). It is the people. It cannot be the system. Unless of course you have a case where the system was never configured with enough security measures.And even in that case it still ends up being a question of the people whether the project was implemented properly. Within any financial management information system we have what we call the user profile. Every user of the system is defined, together with what their role in the system is.Main story: Waiguru links DP Ruto s office to NYS scandalFor instance, for a typical financial transaction, you would expect one person to do the entry; another person to do the verification; and yet another person to do the authorization. And if you so wish, you can even have two authorization levels, if you want to tighten the controls further.But at the very minimum, you should have an entry ; a verification ; and an authorization done by different people..Now one of the controls is that the person doing authorization should not be able to do the entry. And the person doing the verification should not be able to authorize. The system has to be set up in such a way that your password profile cannot allow you to do that.So the person doing the authorization would never be able to do the initial entry. And this makes sure that there are at least three people involved in the transaction. So at what point would you say that money could be stolen without the person doing the authorization knowing?The other issue would be that of the passwords. Within such a system, your password is your signature. And you have to be absolutely certain that it is personal to you.In this NYS saga, one of the allegations has been that someone's password had been stolen. But one of the rules of a password is that you do not write it anywhere. It is supposed to be in your head, just like the PIN of your bank account. You have to memorize it. Or if you have to write it, you have to do so in such a way that anybody looking at what you wrote could never tell.But at the end of the day, that is your signature and you have to guard it. And the password should not be a weak one. It has to be strong. The system has to have a password policy that ensures that everybody has very strong passwords, especially where there is a lot at stake. And passwords must be changed often. A well implemented system will have these password requirements automated.So the issue of someone stealing your passwords should simply not arise.But it s also possible especially within a large institution for a system not to be implemented properly. And for people to leave loopholes which can then be used in all sorts of ways.You cannot rule that out. Kandie is a Financial Consultant