Kenya Cup champions Kabras have signed six players for the start of the new season on Saturday.Those that have signed for the sugar millers include Felix Ayange from Kenya Harlequin and Dan Sikuta from Mwamba RFC. Others are Joseph Odero (Nakuru), Johnstone Mungau (Quins), Armstrong Barasa (Western Bulls) and Andrew Gathua (Blak Blad). The club has at the same time released nine players from their roaster. They are Polycarp Odhiambo, who joins Homeboyz), Ken Isindu (Western Bulls), Dan Suchi and Jasper Onen (Quins) and Francis Mutuku (Nondescripts).The trio of Derrick Obiero, Eliud Mulama and Martin Juma has joined Championship side United States International University-Africa (USIU A ). Kabras assistant coach Anthony Ogot has expressed confidence that the club can defend the Kenya Cup and add the Enterprise Cup to their cabinet. We have signed quality players this season and we are looking at having depth in our positions and make the squad competitive, added Ogot. Some of the signings played against Strathmore Leos in a pre-season friendly over the weekend, a match that Kabras won 28-7. Ogot said the preseason has gone well for them and they are relishing the start of the season. It will be tough season as teams have signed up new players and prepared well. However, we are more than ready to defend our title and do even better than last season, added Ogot.Ogot said the squad will take each game at a time. There are no easy sides in Kenya Cup. Teams have improved and we must treat and respect all sides and prepare adequately for a long season, he added.Kabras open their league campaign against Men Machine at the Kakamega show ground. Ogot said he expects the usual suspects to be contending for the title. People see us as underdogs despite winning the title and so I expect the usual suspects like Impala, Quins, Nakuru, KCB and Homeboyz to be challenging for the title and of course there will be a few surprises, Ogot noted.Last season, runners up Impala signed Anthony Orege from Strathmore University, Nicholas Mugugu (Nondies) and Dan Otella (Homeboyz). Backs Lameck Dunde and Ian Minjire have gone to pursue further studies in Italy and Germany respectively while Pius Shiundu has signed for Quins after a season-long loan.KCB have also bolstered their squad as they seek to reclaim the trophy. Those on board include Felix Ojow from Homeboyz, Martin Owila (Nakuru) and Nick Ongeri (Mwamba). Collins Nato is another big signing for the bankers from Nondies while Raymond Lilako joins his brother Curtis Lilako from Blak Blad. Quins, another title contender for the season, have signed hooker Raphael Kathurima from Homeboyz, Jared Owinyo (Strathmore) and Brian Beckham (Nondies).Mwamba signed Billy Odhiambo from Strtahmore Leos.Elsewhere, two-time Kenya Cup champions Nakuru RFC are yet to acquire new players despite losing three during the transfer window that ended 10 days ago.Iwambe Odoyo, Joseph Odero and Martin Owila left the club for Nairobi University s Mean Machine, Kabras and KCB respectively. Wanyore hit the headlines when they became the first team from outside Nairobi to bag the prestigious cup during the 2012/13 season and fought hard to maintain the diadem the following year.Nakuru s team manager Hillary Kisangi, however, still remains upbeat about reclaiming the former glory despite the loss of some of their key players to rival clubs. We were late this season but we will be banking on signing new players the moment the next window opens next year, he said. We have two players from Egerton University s Wasps and Western Bulls training with us but the transfer is not yet formalised, he added.The team lost 29-31 to Impala Saracens over the weekend during a pre-season match at home in Nakuru Athletics Club. They trailed 24-0 and 31-3 at one time in the match and technical changes had to be made for them to catch up. Kisangi attributed the loss to the fielding of junior players who had risen ranks into the senior team. 