Micah Kipkemboi Kigen remembers the aftermath of 2002 general elections with a great deal of bitterness.The events of that time literally broke his life into pieces, but he is happy that he has lived to tell the story. He says now that it is only thanks to God&rsquo;s mercy that he made it through.The frustrations he faced led to him going to State House in Nakuru in the sunset of Daniel arap Moi rule and weeping uncontrollably. And he subsequently went to Moi&rsquo;s Kabarak home where he camped outside for seven days, in the hope that he would be paid the costs he had incurred while campaigning for Uhuru Kenyatta who was then the party&rsquo;s candidate in the general election.Kigen had verbally agreed with Kanu to re-organise YK&rsquo; 92 to support Uhuru with a promise that they will be funded. This did not happen and Kigen, along with his group members, went on to incur huge costs in the hope that they would be paid back.&ldquo;I had a firm commitment that we would be funded and we incurred huge costs amounting to Sh12 million in hotel bills but our efforts to get help failed,&rdquo; Kigen sadly recalls.&ldquo;Kanu lost the elections and the debtors auctioned my property, including my family house in Nairobi. My family was thrown out and we had to be accommodated by my brother.&rdquo;Former Lugari MP Cyrus Jirongo paid to enable him to move into a rental house and after winning the 2013 polls. President Kenyatta then helped to offset the balance of what Kigen owed the debtors.&ldquo;I don&rsquo;t regret joining politics and doing what we did. I have forgiven all those who were behind my woes. My friends in South Sudan helped me to start business which I run to date and am doing well&rdquo;, says Kigen, who at one time worked as a personal assistant to former Minister Nicholas Biwott.Kigen intends to run for the Keiyo South parliamentary seat on an ODM ticket in 2017. He is the patron of the Kagoech Foundation which he formed to mobilize youth for development activities in Elgeyo Marakwet.He is also behind a greening programme to conserve the environment in the North Rift.He claims that he has for many years fought for the rights of communities in Kerio Valley.This is where he was born and Kigen further claims that he has witnessed hundreds of people being displaced from land which they had long occupied.This was done, according to Kigen, to make way for mining activities in that region.In brief1964: Born at Kimwarer in Elgeyo Marakwet County1980: Started school at Turesia Primary School in Keiyo where he did his CPE in 19801981: He later moved to Lelboinet Secondary School and sat for his O- levels in 19841984: Kenya Posts and Telecommunications (KPTC), Technical assistant1986: Wellington University, USA, graduated with a bachelor degree in Business Management in 19881990: Retired from KPTC to join politics. A year later, in 1992, he was appointed National Coordinator for YK&rsquo; 921993: Personal Assistant to Nicholas Biwott, Cabinet Minister in Moi government2001: Formed Kanu Action Group that campaigned for Kanu when it lost the 2002 general election2004: His property auctioned due to debtsQuotes2010: &ldquo;God has been on my side always. When I fell down and was so poor he lifted me up again and despite the many trials I have gone through, I thank him for making me who I am today.&rdquo;2012: &ldquo;Our environment has been depleted extensively in most parts of the country where people carelessly destroy forests daily. When I look at a tree I see it as a source of life because without it we will not get water and food. We have to teach our children that planting trees is more useful than cutting down forests.&rdquo;2016: &ldquo;If I were to meet President Kenyatta today I would tell him that he has failed this country by allowing graft to thrive and shake the foundation of our motherland. I was among those who strongly believed in him but I will tell him plainly that he is a let down to Kenyans.&rdquo;2016: &ldquo;I believe in Kenya as one nation. It&rsquo;s not a country for two tribes as Jubilee has made it. The politics of chest thumping in Jubilee is not healthy.&rdquo;