 Kanu never promised zero tolerance on corruption in its campaign manifesto, former Kanu secretary general Joseph Kamotho replied when he was once asked to comment on rampant corruption in the Moi Regime. But unlike Kanu, President Uhuru Kenyatta promised to fight corruption in the 2013 campaigns. In fact, one of the solutions Jubilee proposed in its manifesto to "clean up government" was to "Introduce the automatic suspension of any official indicted of corruption charges". He has a promise to deliver but he is now frustrated. Having fired some ministers in 2014, President Uhuru, in his words, is now feeling the heat due to the political cost it came with. But there is more. "Corruption will now cease to be a way of life in Kenya, and I call upon all members of my government and public officers accustomed to corrupt practices to know, and clearly understand there will be no sacred cows under my government," President Mwai Kibaki said during his inaugural speech on December 30, 2002.Now, for President Uhuru, the Sh5.3 billion Mafya House alleged scandal is not only about his government, as was Kibaki's. nor is it about Jubilee as it was Kanu's. "It is the President's scandal". His family is implicated. Under his watch, it is now a way of life. On his maiden visit to Africa, His Holiness Pope Francis, as anticipated, talked passionately and equally harshly against corruption. Referring it to sugar so sweet , he expounded its implications which he described as diabetes . The system is diabetic. It was,however, not the first time a visiting foreign leader was talking against corruption in Kenya. In 2006 on this visit to Kenya, the then Illinois Senator Barack Obama in his speech titled An honest government, a hopeful future refereed to Kenya's level of corruption as a crisis. A crisis that robbed honest people of the opportunities they fought for and thus deserved, making many Kenyans live in abject poverty.The government dismissed him as an inexperienced and junior senator who could not teach Kenya how to manage its affairs.Fast-forward to 2015. On his very first visit as a sitting US President, Obama in his address at the Kasarani Sports Arena, said research shows corruption costs about 250,000 jobs every year, and every coin given as a bribe would be put in a pocket of an individual doing an honest job. He said It inhibits economic and social progress.Vindicating Obama, Uhuru declared graft not only as a crisis but a national security threat: Probably taking governance lessons from the then junior senator from Illinois!Despite constant condemnation of corruption, even by foreign leaders, there hasn t been a major inspiration to fight it. It now has to be triggered by the citizens themselves because the political class will not.In numbers, the Transparency International s Report, People and Corruption: Africa Survey 2015 - Global Corruption Barometer says corruption in Kenya increased by between 60-80 per cent over the past one year. Former EACC boss Philip Kinisu told Reuters in March Kenya is losing a third of its state budget the equivalent of about Sh600 billion to corruption every year. Seventy per cent of Kenyans think the government is badly handling the fight against corruption against 27 per cent who think the government is doing well. Positively, 58 per cent think ordinary people can make a difference in the fight against graft.The President says he is helpless. He is helpless because, as former Chief Justice Willy Mutunga said, ours is a bandit economy. It is controlled by a cartel that remote controls him: People who made him President in 2013. Let me explain.In the run-up to the 2013 general election, Uhuru was not ready to be President. There was the ICC hurdle. Consequently, he reached out for a deal with ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi that he be the Jubilee Coalition flagbearer. But when this cartel heard this, with the security of their dealings and businesses in mind, they came gun blazing. For them, there was no way he was stepping down for anyone.There was an about-turn on the proposed pre-election deal. It is now popularly known as the Madimoni moment.These are the people behind the scandals. The billions they spent in the UhuRuto campaigns have to fetch returns. They also want cash to finance his campaigns in 2017 so that they continue eating the meat.But there are lessons to draw from Nigeria, Tanzania and Ghana. On coming to power in May 2015, President Muhammadu Buhari immediately started his onslaught on corruption. Due to his own initiative as a national leader, he has since received support from countries such as the US and the UK, who are repatriating stolen funds back to Nigeria. This is evidenced by a conversation at Buckingham Palace between former UK Prime Minister David Cameron and the Archbishop of Canterbury at an event to mark the Queen s 90th birthday. Responding to Cameron's remarks that Nigeria is among the most corrupt countries, the Archbishop said, But this particular president is not corrupt he s trying very hard. Ghana's Parliament in 2014 unanimously adopted a 10-year National Anti-Corruption Action Plan NACAP2015-2024. It is a blue-print in the fight against corruption. The document brought on board civil society groups, political parties, anti-corruption campaigners and the government of Ghana in the implementation of NACAP. This is exactly what is needed in Kenya.Since, as President Uhuru has pointed out, civil society, media and leaders from across the political and social spectrum have come together and made their views known on corruption menace, it is imperative that they now come together and offer a solution instead of endlessly debating on the same issue. As a national leader, the President has the responsibility and duty to lead this initiative. Not hands off, eyes off, ears off, legs off and everything off manager. He needs to be hands on, as he told Kibaki, or more like Tanzania's John Magufuli or Nigeria's Buhari.As it was done in Ghana, all the concerned parties such as the presidency, EACC, the DPP, the DCI and civil society must join hands to win this fight.This will be possible through three approaches; Prevention, education (creating public awareness) and enforcement (proper investigations and prosecution) sealing all the loopholes available. We also need to build reliable systems and and improve on how we respond to corruption allegations. This will in turn build a sustainable capacity of the anti-corruption institutions in place. Unfortunately, this is only possible if he is the man in charge.