Two governors have accused the state of failing to halt clashes between the Kisii and Kipsigis communities at Ikorongo.Kisii Governor James Ongwae and his Nyamira counterpart John Nyagarama on Thursday said people have lost their lives and many others have been displaced in the violence that has lasted for more than a month. The clashes have left three people dead and several others injured. We are urging the national government to move with speed and end the violence along the common border, Ongwae said.Nyagarama termed the violence primitive and said the state should bring it to an end. We cannot afford losing our people any more, he said.Ongwae and Nyagarama spoke at Ikorongo in Nyaribari Masaba constituency during a peace meeting with residents.They said they have invited their counterparts from Bomet and Narok for a meeting with residents from both sides to discuss how they can live peacefully.During the meeting, residents said certain political leaders and chiefs support the animosity.The governors were accompanied by area MP Elijah Moindi, Gusii Council of Elders chairman James Matundura and several MCAs.The county bosses promised to help victims. Ongwae donated seven bags of maize, three bags of beans and 200 iron sheets. Nyagarama promised to donate 200 iron sheet and nails.He said his administration will speed up the opening of a security road along the border.Nyagarama said livestock theft is the cause of the violence.MP Moindi said he has invited Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery to the area to address the problem.He said he has also raised the matter in the National Assembly. Last week, I led a delegation of leaders from our region to Nkaissery s office, where we demanded the opening of a police station and deployment of 25 police officers to man the border, Moindi said.In September, clashes broke out at Olmelil on the border of Narok and Kisii. Security officers fired in the air to disperse Kipsigis and Kisiis armed with bows and arrows. Members of the Kipsigis and Kisii communities have been fighting, following a foiled cattle theft. Youths from the Kipsigis community attempted to steal cattle from the Kisii side, Trans Mara West deputy county commissioner Joseph Maina said.