Kenya will be pushing for fresh commitment on increasing the financiers for Official Development Aid beyond the 28-member Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development at a forthcoming global summit on eradicating poverty in Nairobi. The country will be hosting the Second High Level Meeting of the Global Partnership for Effective Development Cooperation at the Kenyatta International Convention Centre between November 28 and December 1.GPEDC is an inclusive global forum which helps governments, businesses and civil society to work better together to end poverty.The summit, expected to attract about 3,000 delegates, including heads of states and governments, is second after the first one held in Mexico in April 2014. About 115 out of the 165 countries that Kenya has invited have confirmed attendance, the National Treasury said yesterday. Treasury CS Henry Rotich said it is important that the Brics (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa), the private sector, non-governmental organisations, philanthropists and civil society are actively included in the global forum. We want to come up with a document on how non-traditional partners can work to increase the pool of funds (for development), Rotich said. We want to bring all these actors together so we reduce overlaps and duplication on project financing. The conference, he said, will contribute to implementation of the Addis Ababa Action Agenda in July 2015 and achievement of the UN-led Sustainable Development Goals. The Addis Ababa Action Agenda on Third Financing for Development, also adopted in 2015, incorporates the means of implementation in which it acknowledged that the new agenda requires inter alia effective development cooperation and inclusive multi-stakeholder partnerships, Rotich told a forum of government officials, private sector, civil society and development partners in Nairobi.The Nairobi outcome document will also seek renewed commitments on increasing the effectiveness of development co-operation for diverse stakeholder groups and define new working arrangements for the GPEDC.Kenya, through the Ministry of Public Service, Gender and Youth Affairs, will also be lobbying the world to ease access of funds for women and youth. While the SDGs address development outcomes, such as ending extreme poverty, the Global Partnership focuses on the quality of development inputs and results, he said. HLM2 will therefore provide a unique opportunity for all stakeholders to assess and set the tone, and prioritise agendas for the Global Partnership. 