Kenyans are being urged to go for early diabetes testing to avert serious complications associated with the late diagnosis of the disease. Head of non-communicable diseases Joseph Kibachio says statistics from the International Diabetes Federation Atlas indicate that 60 per cent of people who are diabetic in the country (6 out of every 10) are not aware they suffer from the disease. That means out of 40 million people, 2 million are diabetic but only 800,000 are on medication. So people need to go out and get tested because especially during this month when the world is marking the World Diabetes Day, he said. He said late diagnosis in adults may lead to severe complications such as stroke, amputation of limbs due to festered wounds, kidney failure, blindness, heart diseases and erectile dysfunction in male patients. The atlas also shows that some 86,000 children worldwide under 15 years are estimated to develop type 1 diabetes annually with an estimated 542,000 others presently living with the disease. Read: 422 million adults living with diabetes, most in developing countries - WHOPoor awareness and inadequate access to medical care contribute to high mortality rates among this group of children. Other barriers to diabetes care in Kenya include poverty as the annual diabetes care often exceeds most family s income. Limited awareness about the disease among both professionals and the general public also often leads to neglected cases or misdiagnosis. Lack of infrastructure in rural areas also often hinder patients from seeing healthcare professionals.Kibachio said that as a response to the continuing diabetes burden in the country, the Health ministry has been running the Changing Diabetes in Children programme whose target is to reduce type 1 diabetes in children under the age of 18. He spoke on Wednesday during the Pan African World Diabetes Day Forum held at the Serena Hotel, Nairobi. The programme which has been running for two years now involves the provision of free insulin jabs to these children free of charge. What remains now is for the media to sensitize Kenyans to ensure no child dies of diabetes for lack of insulin, said Kibachio. The programme runs under the sponsorship of the ministry with additional funding from several organisations such as Novo Nordisk, a Danish pharmaceutical company and a global leader in diabetes care. Kibachio made a rallying call for Kenyans to nurture a culture of eating healthy foods and exercising frequently to minimise risks associated with diabetes.Read: Your 'African food' can also trigger diabetes It is surprising that we have a country that does well in agriculture, but people choose to sell fruits and vegetables to go and buy meat. There is need to sensitise our people about the benefits of eating natural foods, he said.He also advised against excessive drinking and smoking, well-known contributing risk factors to cardiovascular diseases.Jean-Paul Digy, corporate vice president of Novo Nordisk, said that under their Base of Pyramid project launched in 2010 in African, they have managed to bring down insulin prices by 70 per cent in Kenya and managed to screen over 20,000 people for diabetes. As the world s largest producer of generic insulin, we see it is both a corporate responsibility and a business opportunity to support local health authorities in making sure that insulin is accessible to the middle and low income patient, said Digy.A report from the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) shows that 30 per cent of all deaths from diabetes worldwide occur in countries with the lowest score in development, meaning many African countries carry the burden.The report further indicates that based on current development levels, diabetes rates in Western sub-Saharan Africa are 15.1 per cent higher in women than in men and 33 per cent higher for women in Southern sub-Saharan Africa. [VIDEO] What it means to live with diabetes