The Sh33 billion Itare Dam project could destroy the Masai Mara and dip tourism revenues, Cord leader Raila Odinga has insisted.He said the project will make 12 rivers in eight counties including the Mara River dry up because water will be diverted from the Mau Forest. Raila spoke on Saturday.Funded by italyThe Italy funded project will provide water to Nakuru town, Naivasha and Njoro at the expense of the Narok, Bomet, Kericho, Kisii, Nyamira, Migori, Kisumu and Homa Bay counties, Raila said.No consultationHe said the government is in a hurry to build the dam and did not bother to consult the people living in areas from which the 12 rivers emanate. There is nobody who would just oppose such a project, but we need to be careful to avoid an ecological disaster, Raila said. Kalenjin voteHe accused rivals of using the Mau Forest to make Kalenjins vote against him.Raila lost support in Rift Valley following the 2008 eviction of thousands of families from Mau Forest. He was Prime Minister.Last month, a section of Kipsigis elders asked Raila to help them stop the Itare Dam project.The elders say seven rivers, that flow across the Kericho, Bomet and Narok counties into Lake Victoria, will dry up as the water will be diverted to the Nakuru and Baringo counties.Reports that rivers Ndoinet, Songol, Chemosit, Tariganbei, Kipsonoi, Nyongores and Sondu would also dry up have made the project unpopular among residents.Politicising projectMeanwhile, a leader from Kericho county has told politicians to stop politicising the construction of a multibillion-shilling dam.Charles Langat, popularly known as Chaglano, urged leaders to iron out their issues instead of engaging in unending squabbles. We need to sit down as leaders with the government and the locals so we can come up with lasting solutions. Let s stop fighting because, at the end of the day, the people may not get water, he said yesterday.Langat had declared his interest in the Buret MP seat. Supremacy battleHe said the supremacy battles among leaders could make investors take their funds elsewhere. The locals have been experiencing water shortage and I believe the project will assist the people of Bomet, Kericho, as well as Nakuru counties by easing their problems. But we need to come together to ensure the success of the project, Langat said.