The Maasai should support the Jubilee government because it has started many projects to help the community, Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery has said. Since Independence, we have never seen a government like this, doing several projects for us, and we have every reason to fully back Jubilee, he said.Nkaissery spoke on Sunday during a fundraiser for the Presbyterian Outreach Mission Church in Limanet, Narok county. Nairobi speaker Alex Magelo was present. Nkaissery said there are Maasais holding high government including, including a CS, PSs and members of boards. He said this is a sign the government has the community s interests at heart. He urged the community to remain united and maintain peace in the run-up to the election.Nkaissery urged residents to be patient as the government repairs the Narok-Sekanani and Narok-Nakuru roads. He said only Jubilee can solve the Mau Forest issue and urged the residents to stop politicising the problem.Nkaissery said Narok is a Jubilee zone. This time the opposition has no place in Narok. We will ensure Jubilee sweeps all the seats, he said. Nkaissery said Cord co-principals Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka have done nothing for Kenyans despite being in the government for a long time.On graft, Nkaissery hit out at the judiciary for failing to address it effectively. He said the government works hard to arrest corruption suspects but the courts don t sentence them. We arrest criminals, corruption suspects and those who have wronged Kenyans, but the judiciary releases them on bond. We should have a situation where the law prevails rather promoting individualism, Nkaissery said.He urged Chief Justice David Maraga to overhaul the judiciary. Parliament should also work on a law to establish a tribunal that looks critically at how the judiciary works, Nkaissery said.He told the opposition to stop tarnishing the government s image by mentioning state officials in every corruption scandal .Nkaissery said it is the responsibility of every individual not just the government to fight graft.He lashed out at the Mombasa High Court for ordering his arrest and prosecution over the destruction of a yacht used to traffick heroin worth more than Sh20 million. Nkaissery said the government had issued an order that ships, aircraft and vehicles found with narcotics be destroyed. And that is what we did. I do know where the magistrate is coming from because you cannot stop the government from undertaking its duties, he said. Especially when it comes to security matter, Nkaissery said.