Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma fell and injured his arm when he was pelted with stones by ODM supporters at Homa Bay Stadium on Sunday.The violence broke out when Homa Bay Town MP Opondo Kaluma and his rival Washington Ogaga started fighting.Witnesses said Kaluma had been dancing next to Ogaga. Later, he started kicking and punching Ogaga, who retaliated by lifting him and hurling him to the ground. He then rained blows on him.Supporters then started hurling stones at the main dais, hitting Ranguma, who fell off his seat and was dragged to safety by his security detail. One of the guards said Ranguma was driven to Aga Khan Hospital in Kisumu.On Sunday night, hospital superintendent Dr Sam Oula would not deny or confirm whether the governor was treated. It is past 9pm. Let us talk about that tomorrow, he said when contacted on the phone. Yesterday he said in an SMS, I have no comments please. Good day. Director of communications at the governor s office Dennis Onyango denied that Ranguma was injured.Speaking on the phone, he said he was unaware of the uproar and asked where Ranguma was hurt.Ranguma had skipped the memorial service of former Homa Bay Senator Otieno Kajwang at Waondo in Mbita. He went straight to the stadium where ODM leader Raila Odinga was later to launch ID and voter registration.Ranguma was expected to join Raila for a similar event at the ASK showground in Kendu Bay but missed it.HECKLING AT MEMORIALHoma Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti and Kaluma s guards fired in the air to disperse the unruly supporters. The supporters calmed down, however, as soon as Raila s chopper landed at the stadiumHoma Bay police commander John Omusanga said the incident has not been reported. We will investigate once we get the report, he said.Earlier at Waondo Primary School during Kajwang s memorial service, ODM supporters refused to allow Awiti to address them. The crowd ignored his pleas to calm down and demanded he leave the stage.ODM national chairman John Mbadi tried to calm the residents but he too was ignored.Awiti accused Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga, who wants to unseat him, of hiring goons to heckle him.The crowd cheered for Magwanga, who had address them just before Awiti.