The Maasai Mara is undoubtedly one of the last frontiers for unadulterated Wilderness experience in the country. For decades, the reserve has served as a source of foreign exchange for the country, attracting approximately 500,000 tourists every year. There is something about the Mara that continues to attract hundreds of thousands of tourists every year; it s all about the wildlife, the people, the culture and the safari experience. This is why it is Imperative that this great reserve is protected and sustained to play its vital role in the greater Mara Ecosystem.The Mara s global allure attracts a sizable international interest from players across the hospitality industry and the international visitor s attracted by its safari experience. The increase in tourism numbers and the need to create accommodation to meet this demand has posed a number of challenges. Firstly, one of the notable concerns raised by conservationist is the proliferation of illegal hotels and lodges in the reserve which have threatened the natural habitat. This concern has informed the county government decision to undertake an audit of all lodges and hotels in the Mara. This audit is meant to ascertain legal operation of hotels, environmental issue and ascertain the status of their operation. The county intends to take the necessary corrective action to ensure compliance of the hotels in terms of both environmental and regulatory requirements.The county government has equally embarked on an overhaul of the Mara s operations under a new management plan (Masai Mara Management Plan) that incorporates international best practices in conservation. The management plan legislation is before the Narok County assembly. Among the provisions in the plan are strengthening the governance structure of the park by creating a semi-autonomous board to manage affairs in the reserve. To improve revenue collection, the Kenya Airport Parking Services (KAPS) has been contracted and this has resulted in the automation and significant growth of revenue collected. In order to ensure the local community around the reserve benefits, the county government has established the Community support fund where 19% of revenues from the park is allocated to support the development initiatives. The allocation is expected to promote the community s economic activities and reduce human-wildlife conflict in the region.Kenya s tourism has borne the brunt of negative travel warnings which resulted in dwindling tourist numbers to the Mara. The past two years has however witnessed tremendous improvement in the country s security which has resulted in substantial increase in visitor numbers.The county government is however not resting on its laurels. To ensure tourist safety and comfort at the Mara, the county Government has invested hugely in security by recruiting and training a total of 307 rangers.The rangers have undergone rigorous paramilitary training at the Kenya Wildlife Training College and also trained in various courses, including poaching control and human-wildlife conflict management.Poaching remains a serious concern that requires constant vigilance to arrest the vice. To put this into context, a total of 2,700 poachers have been arrested in the Mara eco-system and over 40,000 snares recovered in the last 14 years. This worrying statistic reveals why security remains a paramount concern. The status of the Mara as a premier safari destinations remain unchallenged, the reserve was recently ranked Africa's leading national park by WTA, beating South Africa's Kruger National Park, Tanzania's Serengeti National Park and Central Kalahari Game Reserve.It s hard to put into words an experience in the Mara, so stop debating and procrastinating , get your safari boots on, come and experience the magic of the Mara this holiday season.