At the Anti-corruption Summit at State House,Nairobi, President Uhuru Kenyatta rhetorically asked whether he should set up a firing squad at Uhuru Park to kill the corrupt and eradicate graft.Though he expected a no answer, Kenyans should say yes to the elimination of the corrupt by a firing squad. Philosophically, I am against capital punishment because if a mistake is made, no appeal can remedy the wrong done. But because corruption kills millions through poverty, capital punishment should be considered as a temporary measure to warn people against it or else, we are inviting graft-gone-mad to kill us all. Given its capacity to destroy Kenya, graft should be taken as an extraordinary crime that requires extraordinary measures and penalties to eliminate.The only countries that have succeeded to eliminate graft are those that punish it with capital punishment. For us, instead of eradicating perpetrators of corruption with death, we perpetuate its endless perpetration and grant it impunity by exempting it from rule of law.However, punishing corruption with death should not be the only measure we can apply against graft. Corruption, the most sinister ogre, has come home in legions and declared war of annihilation against us. To survive this invasion by ogres of corruption, we either take arms and go to war with them or surrender and let them devastate and starve us to death.With the country under siege, graft is fleecing Kenyans in billions and rising levels of poverty are completely impoverishing the people and forcing entire nation down to its knees. Who then will slay ogres of corruption? Only President Uhuru has the executive sword to slay the corruption dragon. And while Opposition leader Raila Odinga may expose the ogres, he has no sword to slaughter them. When fighting corruption, President Uhuru must guard against infection by avoiding the company of the corrupt as he would leprosy. As the Kikuyu adage says Mucera na mukundu akundukaga taguo , One of bad company will also be bad. As Jesus said, it is better to lose a hand or an eye than miss salvation. Likewise, it is better for President Uhuru to lose all the corrupt that work for him than lose his entire government, image and legacy. With courts and evidence of graft everywhere, there is no excuse for the President not to declare war, arrest, prosecute and slay ogres of corruption.It is his responsibility to protect people against corruption and abdication not to. To slaughter perpetrators of graft, he must not look apes in the face. The President must not look for lost goats with ogres that ate them. Only persons of highest integrity should be engaged to fight corruption.There is no corruption of the back and of the stomach, small and grand, of opposition and government, our and their corruption. All must be prosecuted with equal vigour. To end graft, we must eradicate its root causes such as our cannibalistic capitalism. Armed with these beliefs, there are things we must do to end corruption: As in China, we must make graft a capital offence. As Malcolm X would say, the only thing corruption respects is death penalty.Anyone convicted of corruption must be barred from leadership and public service.All loot from corruption must be confiscated and surrendered to victims.State and Public officers must not do business with government.Harambees must not be allowed to legitimise and sanitise graft.Leadership must never mean opportunity to enrich oneself. All must be vetted by Chapter Six of the Constitution to qualify for political and public office. Holders of public office must declare their wealth and be subjected to lifestyle audits annually. It shall be an offence for ethnic elites to use negative ethnicity to self-protect or protect others against prosecution for corruption.Parliament must stop protecting politically correct and ethnic elite against prosecution. If President Uhuru lacks legal powers to arrest and take the corrupt to court, he should seek those powers from Parliament.To uproot this menace, the fight must be multifaceted, thorough, nondiscriminatory and ruthless and in executing it, the President must not fear losing elections. He cannot fight the corrupt and have them keep him in power. He cannot fight thieves and keep friendship of corrupt relatives and friends.