As Americans went to the ballot on Tuesday, not many predicted that Republican candidate Donald Trump would win the hard-fought US presidential election. The majority of opinion polls and political pundits predicted a slim win for Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton, who was being supported by many, including President Barack Obama. Americans made the choice to have Trump as their 45th President against the expectations of the entire world. The unpredictable result, just like when the Britons voted for Leave to exit the European Union, carried the day.There are many lessons Kenyans can draw from the US elections, especially those of us who support the Jubilee Party. We must ask how a Trump presidency will affect Kenya-US relations. From the election result, it appears there was a silent majority who became the determining factor in the polls. In Kenya, these people have been labelled the undecided in the various opinion polls that have put President Uhuru ahead. This, however, is without the 50 per cent plus one required to win in the first round.As I said a few weeks ago in my column, the Jubilee Party may have the goodwill of many Kenyans but should not sit pretty without encouraging more of these supporters to register as voters. Cord leader Raila Odinga, the most likely opposition candidate, could pull a surprise using this undecided vote .The Trump bid seemed to have divided the Republicans but the results suggest the party was still in control of its support base. Trump even won in some states that Mitt Romney lost to President Obama in 2012 such as Florida, Ohio and Iowa. Many pundits and pollsters predicted that Clinton would win in Florida due to the Latino vote and Trump s rhetoric against the Latins. Favourable reviews from pundits as well as leads in opinion polls, as we have seen in Kenya, should not be equated with a win at the ballot.There has been a narrative that one is likely to win an election when he or she is an incumbent or is supported by all the state machinery of incumbency. This has been proven to be fallacious as Obama, the entire Democratic Party and the entire state machinery threw their weight behind Clinton.Democrats, despite enjoying incumbency, will now experience a very difficult four years with no control of the presidency and both Houses the Congress and the Senate. The Trump presidency will enjoy a tyranny of numbers, and will run the government comfortably because it will pass laws with ease.This win raises questions about what this means for Africa and Kenya, which is among the few countries in the continent Obama visited as President. What happens to the negotiations on direct flights from Kenya to the US? What happens to the deals he signed with President Uhuru Kenyatta in July last year? Where do we now stand on the renegotiated African Growth and Opportunity Act ? What happens to programmes spearheaded by the Obama administration such as the Young African Leadership Initiative and Power Africa? These are some of the many questions that we have to ponder, given Trump s rhetoric on his campaign trail. Traditionally, America s foreign policy has been viewed as inherently self-interested and often short-sighted. This was played up by Trump on the campaign trail and may be a matter of concern for Africans and the rest of the world as he enters the White House. With an unclear picture of what his stand on US-Africa relations is, Kenya will be watching with baited breath to find out.