Kenya s Fatuma Zarika, who recently stunned the boxing fraternity after winning the world s most prestigious title is expected to thrill boxing lovers in Nairobi on Jamhuri Day in a homecoming contest organised by Osaga Promotions of Caleb Kuya.The event will be a precursor to her title defence of the World Boxing Council belt in Kenya in February next year. Denmark-based Promoter Kuya said the Jamhuri card will also feature some of Kenya s best female pugilists. Kuya added that Zarika will fight a yet to be identified Malawian boxer.Jane Kavulani also known as Kakamega Express will fight for the vacant national boxing title also with her opponent to be named soon. Zarika made history by dismissing Jamaican Alicia Ashley to become the first ever Kenyan female professional boxer to hold a WBC title.Zarika, who is based in Miami, won the WBC super bantamweight title on split points. The Kenyan challenger outclassed her Jamaican adversary in a title contest held in Flint, Michigan, USA.The fight saw the 31-year-old Zarika improve her record to 28 wins, two draws and 12 losses while Ashley, 49, the oldest all-time world champion, dipped to 23 wins, a draw and 11 losses.The new champion has received numerous congratulatory messages on social media. Born in 1985, the Kenyan star endured a difficult upbringing, losing her mother and living in one of the toughest neighbourhoods of Nairobi, but that didn t deter her from chasing her dreams.Zarika started boxing as an amateur at 15, and quickly rose to become one of Kenya s most promising boxers. Her impressive boxing record is testament to her talent, great determination and her remarkable achievement can only inspire aspiring young boxers to dare to dream.In another development, Commonwealth Boxing Council-Africa welterweight champion James Onyango will be defending his against Ugandan rival Patrick Atuhairwe during the inaugural Friday Fight Night boxing set for December 9 at the Kenyatta International Conference Centre. Onyango knocked out the Ugandan in the 10th round of their 12-round bout to claim the belt on July 31, 2015. In an interview, Onyango said he is going for nothing short of title defence. Patrick had asked for a rematch and luckily he got a promoter to make his dream come true, said Onyango. It seems I did not punish him enough last year and he will be in for a rude shock this time round. Everything is alright in my camp. I have trained well, the conditioning is perfect and we are only waiting for the d-day. Onyango has a pro-career record of 22 wins (18KOs), 11 losses (three KOs) and one draw while Atuhairwe has six wins (3KOs) and three losses (two KOs). In the women s category Kenya s lightweight boxer Judy Waguthii will face off against Tanzania s Asha Ngedere in a 6-round lightweight non-title fight. Kenya s lightweight Fred Nyakesha will also battle Uganda s Mubarak Seguya. Friday Fight Night is set on a series format, sponsored by The Main Event Company (TMEC). The series will profile Kenya s amateur and professional boxers in addition to fusing the elements of boxing and entertainment. Our objective is to provide a platform for developing and nurturing the sport in Kenya by providing a platform for boxers to showcase their skills and promoting today s youth and tomorrow s champions, said Diana Gichaga, TMEC managing partner. TMEC has partnered with Big Time Promotions in executing the series.