The Nairobi Securities Exchange yesterday said it hopes new products will attract more investors to the bourse next year as it notified shareholders that full-year profit for 2016 will fall by at least a quarter. The self-listed exchange said it expects net profit to fall by at least 25 per cent, making it a second consecutive year of drop in net earnings. Last year's net income declined by 4.51 per cent to Sh305.59 million year-on-year. Over the course of 2016, the Kenyan economy and particularly the Capital Markets sector has remained resilient despite a challenging operating environment both locally and internationally, NSE said in a note to investors. Taking the foregoing into account (and) ...based on the projections for the remainder of the year, the company is expected to record a decline of more than 25 per cent in the net profit attributable to the shareholders for the financial year ended 31 December 2016, as compared to that for the same period ending 31 December 2015. Trading revenues at the bourse, whose equity market is 70 per cent driven by foreign investors, account for about 53 per cent of total income. Lower banking stock prices in September, however, presented an opportunity for entry-level investors, NSE chief executive Geoffrey Odundo told reporters at a press conference, with more trade volumes coming in year-on-year. We have seen a five per cent recovery (since rate cap) but this is still the levels the market was before the interest caps, Odundo said. Volumes have however been high for entry-level investors. Investor sentiment on the NSE has also been hit by the June 23 referendum vote by Britain to exit the EU and shock election of billionaire businessman Donald Trump as US president earlier this month. The perception issues that have been there after the (US) election have been whittled down. We continue seeing actual trading taking place, Odundo said. The NSE targets first contracts in derivatives and Exchange Traded Funds early next year, with upgrade of its IT platform expected to be completed by June to accommodate new products. The bourses is also awaiting imminent launch of Treasury bonds traded over the phone imminently, a world's first that will deepen the bond markets. We are waiting for the coupon rate to be announced by the Treasury and the total amount to be issued and we are also finalisation on the secondary trading testing, NSE business development director Wachira Gichu said.