Diabetes appears to have overtaken accidents and injuries as the leading cause of amputations and loss of lower limbs among elderly people in Kenya. The disease is also a leading cause of blindness in adults. Two studies at Kenyatta National Hospital and Kikuyu Mission Hospital show thousands of Kenyans living with the condition may be unaware of its devastating effects if it is not well managed. Dr Vincent Mutiso, a consultant orthopedic and trauma surgeon, who led the KNH study, found that gangrene caused by diabetes led to 58 per cent of all lower limb amputations at the hospital. It was followed by tumour infection, trauma and frostbite respectively. Most of the amputations were among patients above 60 years. The most common indication for amputation was diabetes. Preventive measures against this are advisable. Efforts should be made towards guidelines on levels of amputation, he noted. He also recommends public health education on acceptance of amputation, and planning for rehabilitation programmes. At Kikuyu, records of all patients who underwent limb amputation between 1998 and 2008 show that diabetes came third as the leading cause of loss of limbs. Trauma and congenital defects came first and second in the study led by Dr Julius Ogeng'o. However, the study also included at children, whose leading cause of amputations are birth defects. Dr Izaq Odongo, head of Curative and Rehabilitative Services at the ministry of health says that to address the diabetes disease burden in the country, the ministry is increasing access to care for persons living with diabetes in collaboration with partners. He was speaking in activities to mark the November diabetes awareness month. Dr Odongo says the government has set up more than 20 diabetes comprehensive care clinics in county referral hospitals. The centres have been set up in Nakuru, Machakos, Kakamega and Mombasa Counties in partnership with the County governments and partners like Novo Nordisk. Many people are unaware of the disease complications. If you walk into a clinic and talk to patients today you ll find that many are not aware of diabetes complications, he said. The President of the International Diabetes Federation, Dr. Shaukat Sadikot, says there is need for countries to put in more resources in preventing diabetes and continuous education in particular promotive and preventive care ,to lower the disease burden. Diabetes is not a silent epidemic; what we are facing is a tsunami of diabetes, said Dr. Sadikot. The Corporate Vice President Business Area Novo Nordisk, Dr. Jean-Paul Digy also expressed concern at the level of awareness. This is devastating as it increases the risk of premature death. Seme Member of Parliament Dr. James Nyikal urged health policy makers to lobby legislatures to enact laws that would aid the war against diabetes. It is very expensive to treat and manage diabetes. What works best is preventive. We must therefore go in promotion and then prioritise universal health care, he said. Global report indicate that 30 percent of all deaths from diabetes in the world occur in countries that score lowest on an index of development.