As is the case with those who tread on uncharted waters, it was no different for Lucy Wanjiru when she made the bold decision to begin mushroom farming in Kiambu, Central Kenya, five years ago.Besides struggling to access the right information on the intricate details of mushroom farming, there was also the issue of access to seeds, as well as the general perception that people have had towards mushrooms.The seeds of a mushroom are called spawns and are available in four types of carrier materials: Grain spawn, Sawdust spawn, Plug spawn and Liquid spawn. Key factors in the growth of mushrooms are capital, climatic conditions and training.Mushrooms have largely been considerea wild vegetable and, in some instances, poisonous, where people have fallen severely sick and even died from taking mushrooms. That can happen when one consumes indigenous mushrooms because they are not supposed to be consumed. Those are wild vegetables that should be left alone, Wanjiru cautions.When she first developed an interest in mushroom farming, Wanjiru was surprised at the lack of appropriate academic courses offering information. Only JKUAT was offering a course on mushrooms under its horticulture programme, she says.However, she notes that the course is theoretical and with no practical experience, where you get to actually learn and grow a mushroom, I had to find more information elsewhere, she says, adding that she travelled to Canada, Japan and the US to further her studies.Wanjiru says mushrooms are a very sensitive crop to grow, and those who venture into it without the proper information will only burn their capital.She says from her studies, she grasped how sensitive mushrooms are to the climate and areas where they can flourish. There are only four regions conducive for mushroom farming: Rift Valley, Nairobi, Central and Nyanza. Mushrooms do not do well in hot weather, she says.Button and Oyster are the two main mushroom varieties grown in Kenya. Agriculture ministry statistics show that of the 500 tons of mushrooms produced per annum, 476 tons are of the button variety.Globally, button is also the most consumed, followed by the Shiitake variety. Shiitake is not commonly grown in Kenya, but Wanjiru says it is peaking.Button, Oyster and Shiitake are largely varieties that do not do well in hot weather. However, Kenya has developed a new variety of mushrooms that can thrive in warm weather, particularly in October through March.While the ideal temperatures for growing mushrooms are 19 or 20 degrees Celsius, the new variety, agaricus bitorquis, grows at 25 degrees Celsius above other varieties, enabling small-scale farmers in warmer areas, such as Mombasa, to venture into mushroom farming.Research from JKUAT is also showing that the new variety tastes better and has a longer shelf life, making it even more attractive for cash strapped small-scale farmers.