Those at City Hall say that since officers in the parking department were sent on compulsory leave, things have not been okay. A small bird whispered to Corridors that a cartel led by a senior officer is said to be minting millions by selling loading zones and forcing parking attendants not to use the electronic payment system. Its said the parking attendants are being forced to collect cash and remit in the evening, to the senior officer. Motorists and other officers at City Hall are appealing to Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero (pictured) to intervene and recall the officers from leave so that the mes is sorted out.=== A senior civil servant was heard boasting that the Ministry of Health probe by the National Assembly s Health Committee is nothing but hot air that is unlikely to go anywhere. Is he jumping the gun or seems to know better? The committee was in Mombasa yesterday to verify the status of the container clinics and members could not agree whether the clinics were value for money of a rip off. There are now suggestions that the National Assembly Public Accounts Committee headed by Rarieda MP Nicholas Gumbo should take over the probe.=== Could a scandal be brewing at one of the many parastatals in the Ministry of Energy? Apparently, the power agency is purchasing property at the Coast without following procurement procedures. A senior manager is said to be threatening to sack his juniors if they don t effect the purchase deals which are meant to benefit some local politicians. === What exactly pushed Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua into supporting President Uhuru Kenyatta s reelection in 2017? Many are seeking answers for Karua s unexpected move after criticising Uhuru s administration over runaway corruption. However, a Cord MP was overheard dismissing Karua s claim that she was backing Uhuru to clinch the Kirinyaga governor seat in next year s August polls. The outspoken legislator was heard saying Karua was only finding a way of getting back to government because her purse is fast drying up.=== It s just a matter of days before several City MCAs are arrested, disarmed and charged in court for misuse of their firearms. A city MCA has been going on drinking spree and brandishing his gun at patrons and barmaids. This has angered several residents and fellow MCAs who now want those misusing their guns disarmed and charged. The latest incident is said to be when an MCA from Eastlands picked up a call girl but later refused pay for the services, instead threatening to shoot her.