Kenya Rugby Union have set a target of 100 points for the Kenya Sevens side for the 2016-2017 World Sevens Series.Coach Innocent Simiyu, however, feels the target is achievable based on the players at his disposal. Yes, we sat down with the board and they have given me a target of 100 points for the season. This is something, we as the team, can achieve based on what the team did last year and the emerging new talent, added Simiyu.Kenya Sevens attained 98 points last season to finish seventh their second highest total and clinched the Singapore leg in April to bag their maiden title after 17 years of participation.Kenya best ever points haul came in the 2012-2013 season when they amassed 99 points under Englishman Mike Friday. Simiyu said he is currently setting up structures and systems for the side I m laying new systems and structures for the players and giving them fresh ideas. We have set the bar high and so far, the players have responded well to the training sessions, added Simiyu. The team will take part in the Safland Sevens tournament in Namibia next weekend. This, Simiyu said will be ideal preparation for the tournament and the season opener in Dubai and Cape Town. Seven countries have confirmed participation in the Namibia show including USA, Argentina, Germany, Zimbabwe, Italy, Uganda and hosts Namibia. We will use the event to assess if our tactics and strategy is working . We also intend to send a strong team to the event considering we will meet most teams at the world series, he added.Simiyu said he expects the team to be in good shape in terms of strength and conditioning by the time the season starts in Dubai next month. I would say the boys are at 60 percent and hopefully, by the time we go to Dubai, the boys should be in peak condition. The newly appointed strength and conditioning coach Ian Gibbons arrives in the country next week from England to take up his role with the squad, he added.Kenya face Australia, France and Japan in the opening leg in Dubai and Simiyu will be seeking to ensure Kenya qualifies for the Main Cup quarter-finals in a tough pool.Elsewhere, Kenya Cup champions Kabras will have to wait longer before unveiling Ugandan Sevens star Phillip Wokorach.Wokorach, who will sign with Kabras in September, has been called up to the Uganda Sevens squad currently preparing for the start of the World Series in Dubai and Cape Town. His availability will be in January when he will have no cup commitments with the Uganda Sevens.