Proponents of the Kisii unity caucus will be forced to go to the drawing board after two ODM rebel MPs dumped the group to rejoin the party.On Monday, MPs Simon Ogari (Bomachoge Chache) and Richard Onyonka (Kitutu Chache) apologised to party leader Raila Odinga and announced their return to ODM during a National Governing Council meeting in Nairobi.The caucus has been campaigning for President Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee Party in Kisii County. Senator Chris Obure and Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi are the only ODM rebel leaders in the group after the Onyonka and Ogari returned to ODM.Bomachoge Kanu chairman Nyaboga Basweti on Tuesday termed the return of the two as &lsquo;inconsequential&rsquo;.&ldquo;After the crushing defeat in Nyacheki, they read the signs of time and returned. The ground is clearly hostile to Jubilee,&rdquo; Basweti added.Kitutu Chache South politician Anthony Kibagendi said the Nyacheki outcome and the return of the two signifies the &lsquo;death&rsquo; of the unity caucus.Read: ODM wins ward by-elections in Kisii, Kajiado and Turkana as Jubilee takes Tana River&ldquo;It clearly confirms that Kisii is an ODM stronghold. The Nyacheki by election provided an acid test for Jubilee but they lost despite Obure and Bobasi MP Stephen Manoti hailing from the area,&rdquo; he told the Star on phone.He told ODM to be wary of the returnees adding that they may use the party to be elected then they go back to their &lsquo;bad ways&rsquo;. &ldquo;Onyonka is a pretender and the party should be wary of him,&rdquo; he added.But Jubilee Party&rsquo;s Albert Nyaundi says the by election and the return of the two MPs to ODM does not mean the newly founded party has lost it in Kisii.Also read: ODM removes six MPs from committees for working with Jubilee&ldquo;We don&rsquo;t view Nyacheki as a loss because it has afforded us an opportunity to gauge our rivals&rsquo; armory ahead of 2017," he said.He also accused ODM of employing voter bribery, political thuggery and intimidation.Nyaundi said Onyonka and Ogari&rsquo;s move was strategic. &ldquo;It is six months to real campaigns. You don&rsquo;t know what will happen tomorrow but their return will help cool political temperatures,&rdquo; he said.Kisii based advocate and political analyst Edward Begi agrees that the unity caucus will be forced to go back to the drawing board saying the Nyacheki by election will have a big impact on the Jubilee brigade in Kisii.He hinted that senator Obure may also return ODM.&ldquo;Obure has not been reprimanded and he was very vocal. There is a likelihood of him returning to ODM just like the two prodigal sons,&rdquo; added Begi.He said unlike Onyonka, Ogari has not been in the forefront castigating ODM. He however said the duo should be admitted back.University lecturer David Omato said the unity caucus remains a &lsquo;still birth&rsquo;. &ldquo;They started on the wrong footing. The rival group led by (Sam) Ongeri has begun their meetings by even involving leaders from neighboring Nyamira,&rdquo; said Omato.&ldquo;However, all is not lost for Jubilee in Kisii. You cannot use a by election of a ward to measure the party&rsquo;s popularity. Jubilee leaders have a chance to salvage their image because it&rsquo;s not too late,&rdquo; added Omato.