Kenya's long-running pursuit of direct flights to the United States will not be obstructed by the change of regime in January, Ministry of Transport reassured yesterday. Officials from the Federal Aviation Administration, US s aviation regulator, completed a five-day audit of Kenya's aviation industry's security and safety measures last week. The assessment will give verdict if the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport will attain category one status, paving the way for direct flights. Donald Trump's unexpected victory following the fiercely contested election on November 11 has unnerved many countries due to his protectionist policies that endeared him to his supporters. Principal Secretary Irungu Nyakera, however, downplayed the fears saying the Federal Aviation Administration, which regulates all aspects of civil aviation in the US, is independent from the federal government. It is the only policymaking body with power to decide whether or not the country will be allowed to implement the anticipated service. From where we sit, getting direct flights to the US is an independent function of the FAA. I don't think politics could play into the process, the PS said yesterday in an interview on the sidelines of the Sixth Africa Aviation Law Conference in Nairobi. Kenya Civil Aviation Authority director general Gilbert Kibe said they are awaiting the final report from the FAA, which will determine if the direct flights to US will materialise. They are going to file the report in the next 30 days and give it to us. The report will tell us if we are going ahead, Kibe said. The FAA s International Aviation Safety Assessment procedure concentrates on the processes and documentations of a country s regulatory body. The audit, Kibe said, focused on 300 items including the eight critical elements of safety oversight system, as defined by the International Civil Aviation Organisation. Among areas Kenya was evaluated include primary aviation legislation, specific operating regulations, state civil aviation system and safety oversight functions. The country s technical personnel qualifications and training were also reviewed during the audit which commenced last Monday.Other areas covered by the IASA assessment checklist are a country s technical guidance, tools, provision of safety critical information, licensing, certification, authorisation and approval obligations, surveillance obligations and resolution of safety concerns. We hope for the best, Kibe said.If given the green light, KCAA will have to apply to have JKIA upgraded to category one, a mandatory requirement for direct flights to the US.Airlines interested to fly directly to the US will also have to apply to be licensed. Nobody (airline) has come out officially, but we believe once we get Cat one, Kenya Airways s alliance partner Delta airlines will be an obvious case, Kibe said.The latest development now pushes direct flights from Kenya to the US to next year, as opposed to a previous prediction of November by the Transport ministry.CS James Macharia told the Star in a recent interview that Kenya was already courting airlines interested to fly between the JKIA and the US.The whole process got a major boost after President Uhuru Kenyatta signed into law the Civil Aviation (Amendment) Bill 2016 on September 14. The US had asked the government to come up with a new Civil Aviation Law.The government has also invested Sh1.3 billion in new security equipment.