The more than 1.5 million children who recently sat their KCPE exam will next year enter the most dangerous phase of their lives, statistics show.The National Aids Control Council says the young people aged between 14-24 constitute the highest number of new HIV infections.Most young people in this age group are in secondary schools and colleges.Most of those infected are girls.NACC boss Nduku Kilonzo said of 77,600 new infections last year, about 35,700 were 14-24 years old.At the same time, 3,850 adolescents and young people died last year due to HIV-Aids-related illnesses. Most of them were infected at birth. Stigma and discrimination continue to discourage young people from seeking HIV preventive care and treatment, further compounding the situation, Kilonzo said.The latest UNAids report, Get on the Fast-Track: the life-cycle approach to HIV, also shows that girls transition to womanhood is the most dangerous phase, particularly in Africa. Young women are facing a triple threat, UNAids executive director Michel Sidib said when he released the report last week. They are at high risk of HIV infection, have low rates of HIV testing and poor adherence to treatment. The world is failing young women. We urgently need to do more. Kilonzo said Kenya will focus on adolescents and young people on the World Aids Day on Thursday.Countrywide football games will be used to educate young people. In view of this, we and our partners organised the Maisha County League. This is an initiative that leverages on the power of football to mobilise young people for a nationwide campaign to Kick Out HIV Stigma .The campaign seeks to end HIV stigma and link young people to stigma-free HIV-Aids testing, treatment and care, Kilonzo said.These activities aim to encourage young people to get tested for HIV and access comprehensive information. NACC also plans to use these activities to promote responsibility among adolescents and young people by encouraging them to know their HIV status and to urge the national and county governments to commit resources in the fight against HIV-Aids among adolescents and young people, Kilonzo said.World AIDS Day has been observed on December 1, since 1988.