Coach David Ouma has lauded Starlets performance in the opening match of the Africa women s Cup of Nations and remains focused on sorting deficiencies that led to his charges letting slip a one goal lead.This is despite the din from Kenyan fans that arose over supposed partisan officiating during the country s historic appearance at the continental showpiece, losing their maiden match 3-1 to Ghana. My girls threw in everything and we live to fight another day. We will go back and analyse our performance. Critical moments decide a game and I think we deserved some critical moments. We had our chances, pushed very hard and reached some moments, but it was not for us. My players did not lack concentration. We had good moments to utilise our chances. It is a learning moment and we have to belief we ve got the experience, remarked Ouma in his post match comments to the media.On a day to remember for Kenyan women football despite the result, ouma was full of praise for the team and in particular Esse Akida, who wrote herself in the history books by becoming the first Kenyan to score in the women s Cup of Nations. I congratulate my players on their debut match at the women s Africa Cup of Nations. It was a fantastic moment and getting the first goal too. I congratulate Esse Akida for scoring Kenya s first goal in the history of the competition, enthused Ouma. In their opening fixture on Sunday night against the Black Queens from Ghana, Akida put Kenya ahead in the 23rd minute before Samira Suleiman restored parity in the 50th minute. Ghanian Elizabeth Addo scored a debatable and controversial penalty in the 71 st minute before Portia Boakye wrapped up the win for the West Africans in the 91st minute.Ghana could have gone ahead after barely two minutes of play when Boakye escaped the Kenyan defence but referee Jeanne Ekoumou made an offside call.Kenyan captain Mary Kinuthia threatened to put Kenya ahead a few minutes later but she shot wide. The Ghanians kept pushing for the opener with Suleiman Sumira s shot rising above the bar minutes later as Kenya side started to gain ground after 20 minutes of play. Good run from Christine Nafula on the right flank saw her release a shot to Corazone Aquino but she shot wide.With Kenyan side settling into the match, left-footed and defender Wendy Achieng set up Akida, who easily volleyed from a close range to put the side who are debuting in the tournament in the lead in the 23rd minute. Addo then tried to pull one back with a curling free-kick in the dying minutes of the first half, but it fell into the waiting hands of Kenya goalie Samantha Akinyi as Kenya lead 1-0 going in the break.On resumption, Suleiman restored parity with a superb header in the 51th minute after a free-kick from Boakye following an infringement from Ann Aluoch.Aluoch then handled the ball in what seemed to be outside the box but the ref pointed to the spot amid huge protests from Starlets with Addo stepping up to put the Black Queens ahead 2-1 in the 71st minute. Boakye then wrap up the win for the Ghanians in the 91st minute with a brilliant free-kick to beat Akinyi in goal.Kenya will face Mali tomorrow night (9pm Kenya time) as Ghana take on Nigeria.