Youngster Karan Patel in a Group &lsquo;N&rsquo; Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution 10 will be first off the ramp in the 37th edition of KCB Guru Nanak Rally in Naivasha and Soysambu this weekend.Organisers released a list of confirmed participants during the pre-event media briefing at Sikh Union Club on Tuesday evening with 43 drivers enlisted to participate.Karan, who participated in five Europe-based World Rally Championship rounds this year, will be followed by &lsquo;Flying Finn&rsquo; Tapio Laukkanen and Jaspreet &lsquo;Jassi&rsquo; Chatthe. The Evolution 10 of Baldev &lsquo;Singh&rsquo; Chager is seeded fourth ahead of Ian Duncan, Rajbir Rai and fast-rising Manvir Baryan.In an interview, Karan said he is happy with being seeded first for the first time in his racing career. &ldquo;Initially, I thought it was going to be a bit of a disadvantage but considering that we are running on closed roads it doesn&rsquo;t really matter as there will be no human and motor traffic on the conservancy&rsquo;s roads to worry about. &ldquo;We do have wildlife here and there which is really uncontrollable. But as a driver, I see lots of benefits from starting first if the road remain muddy but if not, there will be a slight disadvantage as I will be the one clearing all sorts of obstacles. However, I&rsquo;m excited to be first on the road for the first time in my career,&rdquo; he said adding: &ldquo;I will not attack though on the Guru as my navigator (Tauseef Khan) had a prior commitment with another driver in the past two rallies and I had to find another one (Shameer Yusuf), who I believe we need more rallies to bond well. But I see some immediately improvements in my driving after competing in Europe.&rdquo;However, I believe it will take some time for me and my new codriver to get the rhythm, so I will not be faster than before,&rdquo; said Karan.The 35 year-old Nairobi businessman Osman Abdullahi, who clinched 13th overall position on his maiden KNRC appearance in Kisumu, will be keen on improving his ranking using his ex-Paras Pandya Subaru Impreza N10 and has been seeded 26th.Leonardo Varese, Eric Bengi, Alex Lairang&rsquo;i and Sammy Nyorri are the main suspects in 2WD category with Kisumu-based Chandu Devji Chhabhadia and Edward Maina leading the charge in Group &lsquo;S&rsquo; Class.The rally will revolve around Aberdare Hills Golf Resort and Soysambu Conservancy on Saturday. The spectator stage will be at the Aberdare Golf Resort and service park at the Delamere Estates. Reconnaissance will take place on Friday alongside scrutineering at the Buffalo Mall in Naivasha. The rally will be flagged off at KCB Branch Naivasha at 630am on Saturday.