With barely 10 days to the start of the Dubai Sevens, all is not well within the Kenya Sevens squad.The players are up in arms over unpaid bonuses from last year s season totalling Sh20 million. Sources close to the players insist that the bonuses were stipulated in the contract after signing but were only paid once when Kenya Sevens clinched the Singapore leg totalling Sh100,000 each with the airline and union objecting to payment of further bonuses as the team reached the semi-finals in Cape Town and quarterfinals in Wellington, Sydney and Hong Kong. The bonus scheme entitled the players to US$1,000 (Sh101,859) and a semi-final appearance US$2,000 (Sh203,619).An appearance in thee final would guarantee each player a US$3,000 (Sh305,506) in bonuses while winning a leg, like the case in Singapore 2016, It would fetch the boys a whopping US$5,000 (Sh509,177) each.Last year, Kenya Airways negotiated new terms with the union that would see the national carrier scale down their bonus scheme to a figure that remained undisclosed for the entire season. The sponsorship was slashed from Sh120m to Sh55m with Sh35m going into salaries and Sh20m towards air tickets for the team. Players have been on go slow in the recent few weeks and the Kenya may be forced to send a weakened side to the opening two legs in Dubai and Cape Town next month.Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) chairman Richard Omwela absolved himself from the stalemate, observing that the KRU chief executive officer Ronald Bukusi signed on the contracts before the start of last season. As you are aware, Ron is away seeking treatment in the USA and from the records he signed on the contracts, he should be in a better position to elaborate on that, added Omwela. He nonetheless, said they are in negotiations with the players to settle outstanding bonuses from last season before the season starts. We are in a delicate negotiation with them and we cant reveal much. We are trying to sort out the issues before the team heads to Dubai next week, added Omwela. The KRU was adamant that Kenya will send a team to the opening two tournaments irrespective of the current stalemate. We will be sending a team and I am confident in the next couple of days. We can sort out the bonus issue and move to other things, added Omwela.The standoff is reminiscent of the 2014-2015 season, where senior players led a strike and the team struggled to regain its form and finished a disappointing 13th with a 46 points narrowly avoiding relegation. The Kenya Sevens team will be named tomorrow and KRU have set the team a target of 100 points for the season. They played at the Safland Sevens tournament a fortnight ago where they lost to South Africa 31-10.