World 1,500m silver medallist Elijah Manangoi is seeking to put his 2016 Olympic Games heartache behind him by lowering the world record in the new season.Manangoi failed to feature in the semi-finals of the three-lap race after tearing his hamstring during the heats, where he had comfortably sailed through.He revealed that lowering the world record will be the only sure way to rub off the Rio disappointment and he is currently putting everything together towards that goal.Moroccan Hicham El Guerrouj is the current record holder with the 3:26.00 he clocked in Italy in 1998.Manangoi s current personal best time is 3:29.67 posted last year during the IAAF Diamond League meeting in Monaco. I sat down with my coach last week to plan my season and my target is to smash the world record apart from eyeing the London World Championships podium, said Manangoi.In his quest to actualise his dream, he use the Diamond League series as a buildup. I haven t set a specific race for the record but I have now resumed my training and I will be discussing with my coach issues to do with my form, favourable conditions and then decide when it is right to go for it. Of course that will be after serious training, he explained. Manang oi s friend and former Olympic and world champion Asbel Kiprop failed in his quest to break the world mark and it remains to be seen how the duo fair come next year.Manang oi has been playing second fiddle to his most experienced senior but the two have managed to strike a relationship on and off the track. I will start by lowering my personal best first and slowly by slowly through the different meetings, I will be able to hit the mark God willing, said Manang oi, adding that he will be gradually attacking the mark by engaging in more long runs and using 800m for speed and endurance. With the experience I have gained overtime, I will be eyeing gold in London which I believe is achievable. Through hard work, God will reward me, added the Ngong-based runner. During the Olympics, I didn t realise that I had an injury after competing in the first round. I went to a doctor for normal check ups and he discovered it, he said. I was very disappointed but I had to accept it since he told me it was serious and I needed six good weeks to heal. He revealed that he is fully healed after treatment in Germany. The season was not bad because I posted my personal best and season s best times though I missed on an Olympic medal, he said. Manangoi first represented Kenya at the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow, finishing 12th but upgraded it to a silver at the Beijing world the following year.