Robert Greene s timeless classic The 48 Laws of Power should be every Kenyan politician s working bible. The 48th law states that one must assume formlessness . Think of something that is formless such as the air, where punches will fail to make any effect. Or water, which, depending on its temperature, will take the direction gravity takes it. If it is frozen, it will take the shape of whatever holds. But if it is at room temperature, it will flow with the direction of gravity. When hot, it will rise as steam and be a part of the air but if it lands on soft tissue as it boils, it may cause lots of damage. Greene warns the power seeker that he must never have a visible plan because in so doing, he opens himself to mortal attack. Using the water analogy, the direction of gravity is strongest when it is neither cold nor hot.In Kenya s past, many politicians have entered the game tactlessly. They laid their plans on the table and were swept into oblivion in one fell swoop. However, one politician who properly assumed formlessness has to be Nicholas Biwott. His shadowy demeanour and general unpredictability made him the politician without perfect form. He was there and not quite there, yet he was the ever-present great power behind the throne in much of President Daniel Moi s tenure. Nobody knew where he lived, which car he used, what or where he ate and all. He avoided the bravura of office, never hosted delegations on homecomings , never made or hardly made pronouncements of undying loyalty to President Moi or Kanu. In fact, he spoke rather softly, not with hard-hitting or fiery statements laced with expletives and threats that have recently put certain politicians in trouble. Those who met him in person often wondered if it was the same person they had heard so much about. Then there were those who, perhaps misreading him, took a punch at him, accusing him of all manner of things. He then turned into ice and each punch left the puncher bruised in the knuckles. When mentioned in a scandal, he became steam and those naming him could not put the face to the name or the name to the action and ended up with expensive lawsuits that gravely injured them in their pockets. His financial acumen was also the stuff of legend. Reputed to hold substantial stakes in a number of listed and unlisted firms, he surely would not sweat the small stuff. But his finances were not really the foundation of his power. He just seemed to have it. As such, he attracted epithets such as the Total Man and Karneet , which in Kalenjin have the same meaning as Stalin the Man of Steel. Formlessness has a lot to do with adaptability adaptation to the changing times and even with the situation. This often means saying one thing and doing another and letting principle slip through the window on occasion. Principle is a form and indeed you could suffer for it. The last politician who resigned on principle could only be Joseph Murumbi in 1966. He could not handle the politics of formlessness. Greene says humans are animals distinguished by their constant creation of forms. These forms change constantly, representing the mood of the moment. Politicians have lately treated us to defections and retractions one after another. We are yet to see a party that kept all its politicians intact until the next electoral cycle and beyond. Another way of being formless is inaccessibility. Have you ever tried to contact a Kenyan politician on their official phone number? It is probably easier to reach US President-elect Donald Trump than your local MCA. Indeed those politicians who have been around a long time, have cultivated the perfect sense of formlessness, which in Kenya s high-octane politics is actually an asset. Or is it?