Doctors yesterday have defied the SRC and pledged to carry out their planned nationwide strike in December to demand 300 per cent pay increase.The Salaries and Remuneration Commission urged them to shelve the work stoppage and await full details of their pay review.Doctor, nurses and other medics say a strike can only be averted if the SRC clearly outlines what they should be paid..Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Union Nairobi branch secretary general Thuranira Kaugiria yesterday dismissed the appeal of the SRC chairperson. He said the commission has taken too long and is wasting time and taxpayers money. The commission has taken 18 months in its evaluation, yet still talking of more time. They are doing nothing, he said.The SRC, in response, said it has no mandate to determine salaries for public servants, but to make recommendations based on work performed.SRC chairperson Sarah Serem yesterday said the doctors union rushed into a strike threat before getting full details of their new salary structure.She urged doctors to be patient as they finish compiling the full details of the report. Doctors got this whole issue wrong. We barely released any details on their pay or what the evaluation report entails. We urge them to wait until all details are released before they make any judgment, she said. We are still having scheduled clinics with employing agencies and stakeholders to analyse the report and discuss implementation under the new job grading structure. The SRC released the job evaluation report last week, which reviewed salaries for public servants. It adopted a new grading structure to be used by employers to determine pay in public service.Soon after its release, the doctors and nurses union said the evaluation did not meet their expectations, so they issued a 21-day strike notice that expires on December 2.Doctors demand a 300 per cent salary increment, while nurses demand a 25-40 per cent rise and an allowance increase of 14-25 per cent.Based on the new demands, the highest paid doctor will earn Sh946,000 while the lowest paid will take home Sh342,770.Currently, the lowest paid doctor earns a basic salary of Sh40,000 and works for an average of 450 hours in a month.