Orange Telkom beat Amira Sailors 4-0 to retain the Kenya Hockey Union (KHU) women s Premiere League title for the 19th year in a row at the City Park Stadium yesterday.Two goals from International Jackline Mwangi in the 12th and 57th minute and a goal each from Maureen Okumu (33rd) and Flavian Mutiva (66th) were enough to help coach Jos Openda s side finish the league on 22 points unbeaten.The match begun on high tempo with Orange dominating the first 10 minutes of play. Telkom had a couple of short corners in the early minutes but they were wasteful on their delivery.Orange continued making in-roads and their efforts paid off with a short corner in the 12th minute. Audrey Omaido willingly stepped up to drag the ball and Mwangi fired past Sailors goalkeeper Racheal Kerubo to put the champions in the lead.Orange should have made it two in 20th minute but Terry Juma failed to convert a penalty corner. With 15 minutes to the end of first half, Sailors begun to re-group to try and put their act together but were poor on their delivery and were punished in the 33rd minute when the fast-rising Okumu scored through a field goal as Telkom went into the break two goal up.Both teams started the second half on a low note but Orange settled in early, forcing their opponents to play in their own half. In the 57th minute, Mwangi returned to haunt the newcomers with a fantastic field goal before Mutiva wrapped up the win for the champions in the 66th with a superb field goal. Orange head coach Openda in an interview, said: I am happy we managed to retain the trophy. The season has been competitive this time round. We would have loved to celebrate the title but I think the real celebration will only come next year when we win the Africa Club Championship to be staged in Nairobi in January 7-15. He added: It s no time to sit on the laurels. We have to work on our 2016 season s mistakes and get ready for the Africa Club Championship. In an earlier match played at the same venue, Strathmore University humiliated Daystar University 9-0 to finish second on the log with 20 points.Yvonne Karanja scored a hat-trick for Strathmore in the 10th,19th and 22nd minute while Denise Odongo added a brace(7th and 66th minute).Virginia Wanyee (19th), Winnie Odongo (28th), Judy Odhiambo (49th) and Gilly Okumu (70th) scored a goal each for the side coached by Meshack Senge. Strathmore finished third in the 2015 season.