Gender CS Sicily Kariuki has asked the Media Council of Kenya to order KTN to pull down the offending content from the Jeff Koinange live show aired on Wednesday this week.She said that trivialisation of rape and the abusive language used when Nairobi governor aspirants Miguna Miguna and Esther Passaris were hosted at the show must be rejected.Read: [VIDEO] Outrage after Miguna, Passaris rape talk video on JKL emergesIn a statement on Saturday, Sicily said the release of behind-the-scenes footage from the show to the wider public was a de-humanising act, therefore unacceptable. "The comments shared online further highlighted that we still have a long way to go as a society towards changing our attitudes towards gender based violence," the CS said.Sicily said MCK must act on the particular show as well as other similar incidents and in future take decisive action to protect victims."The sorry scene was made equally worse by the collective failure of the several actors who stood by and watched from a distance," Sicily added.The cabinet secretary sought answers on why the media house allowed the continued assault. "Why didn t anyone step in? Who were behind the scenes? Who were these silent actors?" she asked. "The fight against Gender Based Violence will only succeed through the efforts of those who take action," Sicily said. Read: Don t be shaken by men like Miguna, Passaris tells women The CS assured Kenyans that the government shall continue to fight against violence against any gender - women or men. Sicily called on Kenyans to join the world in celebrating 16 days of Activism against Gender-Based Violence (GBV) starting November 25.The celebrations will begin with the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women and end on December 10, being the Human Rights Day."During these 16 Days of Activism, the world will be calling upon everyone from of all walks of life to act to end violence against women and girls," Sicily said."I call on men and women to use the conversations around this unfortunate and highly publicised incident to galvanise our efforts to fight GBV," she said.In the show, Miguna Miguna who is vying to be Nairobi governor is heard saying "everybody is raping Esther...Esther is so beautiful... everybody wants to rape her ..."Passaris, who is also an aspirant for the seat, did not take the comments lightly."You are so sick...You are so jealous and I can't even look at you... really...really... you are so disgusting," she said.Koinange, the show host, and the crew were seen unshaken and laughing at the argument.