The Mannequin Challenge, the latest one to take the digital world by storm, has seen people share short videos of poses reflective of store arrangements.Under Twitter hash tag&nbsp;#MannequinChallenge, the videos have popped up on&nbsp;a daily basis since about the start of November. For twists, people have depicted scenes from popular sporting activities while others have taken the route of social events. But none of the combinations particularly stood out until late Wednesday night when #MannequinChallenge and the #BlackLivesMatter were paired. The challenge took a turn towards activism with videos depicting scenes&nbsp;from killings of African American men by police officers, bringing to the fore the question of racism in America. The video details &#39;Black Lives Matter&#39; and &#39;All Lives Matter&#39; demonstrations as well as a personal protest by American Football player Collin Kaepernick. In protest against racism, Kaepernick&nbsp; refused to stand up when the national anthem was sang during a game on the night of August 26. The timing of the video&#39;s release also raises a key question on the USA&#39;s future following Donald Trump&#39;s shocking victory against Hillary Clinton in the Wednesday presidential election. Trump, who vied on a Republican Party ticket, has repeatedly expressed racially polarising sentiments including a ban on the admission of Muslims to the US. He has also said mosques will be monitored, illegal immigrants deported and a wall built at the border of US and Mexico, and paid for by Mexicans. Trump&#39;s utterances&nbsp; formed a fraction of instances in the campaign period&nbsp; when the fallout from a possible Trump presidency led Democratic Party candidate Clinton to rally the country to pick her. In the hours that followed Trump&#39;s victory, several cities erupted in protests; Twitter hash tags that trended during the demonstrations were #NotMyPresident and #NotMyPresidentElect, in expressions of disappointment at the choice Americans made. Police brutality has also haunted the US, especially following repeat cases of the killing of African American citizens. Thousands took to city streets in July to denounce the fatal shooting by police of two black men.They marched on July 9, a day after a gunman killed five police officers watching over a similar demonstration in Dallas.The latest case in October was of the killing of Ugandan immigrant Alfred Olango.The 38-year-old was shot in El Cajon, California, by two officers responding to a report of a mentally unstable man walking in traffic, after he pointed an object at them that turned out to be an electronic cigarette.The Washington Post&nbsp;placed the number of victims of police brutality this year alone at more than 800; more than a quarter were African Americans. Hispanics also formed a chunk of those killed by police in the line of duty while a proportion of the deceased has not been categorised by race. Trump&#39;s pronouncement as the winner of the 2016 race for the White House has raised the question of whether he will make good his campaign promises among them being an allegation to deport outgoing president Barack Obama to Kenya, the home of his late father.The minute-long video certainly raises pertinent questions that Trump will need to address when he officially takes office in January, 2017.