IT is no longer a secret that the opposition is having a hard time getting financiers from the Coast, who have previously backed Cord leader Raila Odinga, to commit to the 2017 bid. Though Raila s strategists continue to chest-thump that they still have the backing of the people at the Coast, the tycoons are of a different opinion. Our moles say some of them have categorically said the return on investment has been too low in the last 10 years and are thinking of keeping away from the 2017 political scene. Our moles also suggest that the Jubilee side has been wooing the same tycoons in the hope*****A Jubilee power-broker is on the spot after he got into an argument at a club in Kileleshwa and started threatening patrons with his gun. The man, known to love his drink, was having a good time until an MP from Western Kenya accused him of having run away with their money during September s Jubilee Party launch at Kasarani. This agitated the man, who asked the MP to leave their table, but this fell on deaf ears. The MP, who is among those who recently decamped from the opposition, refused to leave until the Jubilee man had parted with some money. He was however whisked away from the venue by one of his bodyguards after the Jubilee man, who hails from Murang a, removed his gun.*****A gun-toting senior Embu county government official, who is also said to be salivating for the Mbeere North parliamentary seat, shocked revellers at a popular joint in Embu town when he brandished his pistol in order to take a damsel home. The diminutive county official then brazenly went ahead to snatch a patron s wife at gunpoint. The gun-wielding aspirant publicly declared that he was taking home the object of his desire. When the protective family man stood to defend his position as husband, the county boss simply went for his pistol from the holster and placed the barrel on the head of the hapless man. And then he ordered the frightened wife to get out of the night club. Minutes later, the chap happily drove away with someone else s wife.*****A section of residents of Wajir East want DCI director Ndegwa Muhoro to come to their help over a group of officers who harass and extort them. They say the officers are being used by powerful businessmen to harass them over a contentious piece of land. They want Muhoro to reprimand the officers involved after they drove to Habaswen to arrest an old man and took him to court, accusing him of occupying land whose ownership matters are in court.