Murang a government workers worked all through Sunday to clear manure from Mumbi Grounds, the Murang a University College and Ihura Stadium ahead of President Uhuru Kenyatta s visit yesterday.The workers loaded the manure on waiting trucks. The trucks were, however, driven away after the drivers realised the media was filming them from a distance. The workers were left with no choice but to pack the manure in bags and carry it off on their backs. The county government officials supervising the cleanup arrived at the university on a county government bus, but left hurriedly when they were informed of the filming.The manure was dumped in the fields days before Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau launched his manifesto. This was seen as an attempt by Governor Mwangi Wairia s government to stop the MP from holding the event. It took the intervention of security personnel guarding Mumbi Grounds on a 24-hour basis, to stop more manure being offloaded in the field.On Friday, a Murang a court issued an injunction to stop the manifesto launch. This was after Dennis Karanja and Harrison Gatitu filed an application, saying the event would bring skirmishes.But county commissioner John Elungata refused to receive the court order from lawyer Karanja Ngugi. David Muraya, an employee of the lawyer was told to take the order to Kiharu deputy commissioner Kepha Marube, who after reading it referred him back to Elungata s office, where he was thrown out.The order listed the Murang a government, the county commissioner and Jamleck Kamau as the defendants. Kamau also moved to the High Court in Nairobi to have the order by the Murang a court quashed. He secured a court order allowing him to launch his manifesto.Yesterday, Uhuru commissioned the tarmacking of the Kangema-Gacharage road in Kangema. He then proceeded to Makuyu to launch the tarmacking of Mukuyu-Kambiria-Mirira-Gwathamaki, Gakira-Ngonda-Mununga and Gakonya-Mahuaini roads. Uhuru later opened the MRI centre at the Murang a County Referral Hospital.