Kajiado Governor David Nkedianye is pessimistic that the EACC will bail Kenya out of the corruption that is threatening to kill the economy.Nkedianye said the country is headed for the worst because of the many unresolved cases of graft at the national and county governments.Noting Kenya will soon fail because of mega corruption, he further accused the commission of applying double standards in handling the cases. I have forwarded many cases on land. The corruption is being perpetrated by senior public officers posted to Kajiado but none of them has ever been attended to, he said."It is painful that I report cases to concerned authorities as the Governor but nobody takes action."He spoke at Maasai Technical Training College in the county after the launch of the county s executive and assembly corruption risk assessment week. The Governor said the corruption always emanates from the lands office, where public servants collude with cartels to defraud land owners. How can one explain cases where senior national government officers posted to Kajiado have managed to become members of group ranches? It has never happened anywhere in the country but it is rampant in Kajiado, he said."For how long will this country grapple with this vice? Officers in the county land offices are now busy carrying out fraud. Where are we headed?" But Kajiado activists accused the county in October of using public resources to campaign for an ODM candidate in Mosiro ward. Nkedianye had been leading campaigns for Peter Tirishe.The Auditor General also revealed that the county may have lost Sh13 million paid as provisional sums for construction work which was not accounted for as per the law.In his 2014/15 report, Edward Ouko points out that the county paid contractors without quotations, invoices, vouchers, accounts or receipts.More on this: Kajiado lost Sh13m in irregular payments - Auditor GeneralThe risk assessment week in Kahiado will be followed by International Anti-Corruption Day that will be marked in Kajiado town on December 9.Only four of the 12 county executive committee members attended the launch .County secretary Kennedy Kerei expressed concern that officers targeted by the EACC were absent. This is a very bad picture at a time when our Governor is fighting hard against this animal called corruption, said Kerei.The EACC was represented by commissioners Dabar Abdi, Susan Kanyeki and Felix Onchoma.