Five families in Malindi are chasing compensation from the government after their kin were shot dead by Nairobi based Special Crime Prevention Unit Police officers in the town nine years ago. They are upset and frustrated that the state has failed to administer justice leading to mental torture.The family members claim the court ruled in their favour in 2011, directing that murder charges be preferred against them and paving the way for their compensation. To date, nothing has happened since the inquest was closed.Currently, most of them are living in pathetic conditions and suffering from psychological torture due to the sudden loss of their children who were breadwinners. The burden of taking care of their children has been left to the old parents living in adject poverty.FLASHBACKOn November 12, 2007 at about 1.30pm, the deceased persons were traveling in a tuk tuk registration number KAV 431Q driven by Kariuki, oblivious of what was to soon transpire. On reaching Kisumundogo junction, a white Toyota saloon overtook them and then blocked them.Four officers who were later identified as from the special crime prevention unit in Nairobi, reportedly ordered them out of the tuk tuk with their hands up and instructed to lie on the ground face down. They soon lay dead. The policemen allegedly opened gunfire on the five unarmed men. Those killed included Hussein Mohamed Ndoro, Robert Kariuki Gathogo Tuk tuk , Ibrahim Daudi Charo, Jackline Akinyi Nangila and Rama Amin.An inquest file was opened to investigate the matter and ruling delivered on April 18, 2011 by then Principal Magistrate J Gandani. In the magistrate s ruling in inquest number 7 of 2008, Gandani termed the police act against the five as an extreme case of extra judicial executions since the police officers had no justifiable reason to shoot them. My conclusion is that the cause of death of the five deceased person in this case, are head injuries secondary to gun shots wounds. Members of the special crime prevention unit from Nairobi have admitted shooting the deceased, said the magistrate.Gandani further ruled that the police officers clearly misused the firearms and used excessive force against unarmed innocent civilians. The officers involved ought to face criminal charges over this incident, I do recommend that appropriate criminal charges which I propose to be murder charges, be preferred against the officers involved, Gandani added. The magistrate further ordered a copy of his ruling be served upon then principal state counsel (Now Director of Public prosecution) Malindi for further action to be taken as per the recommendations.The then Special Crime Prevention Unit officers involved in the killngs includes then Chief Inspector Zabedi Maina, Senior Sergeant Peter Muthee, Corporal Isaac Njoroge and Corporal Mbogo.It s not clear where exactly they are now as they families insist that no charges have been preferred against them.CRY FOR JUSTICETwo weeks ago on a visit to the families at their homes in Kisumu Ndogo area within Malindi town, I found a frustrated family, still mourning the death of their loved ones.They included 87-year-old Daudi Masha, the father of Ibrahim Daudi; his daughter-in-law Christine Agutu, Amini Ibrahim, 43, father to Rama Ibrahim and Nagillah Bridget Elber, sister to Jackline Akinyi.It was clear on their faces how passionate they were about their tireless efforts to see justice delivered after the court inquest.Mohamed Heri, popularly known as Mzee Madevu, 77, could not hold back tears as he recounted the brutal murder of his son, Hussein Mohamed and the burden he left behind.Apart from the challenge of feeding the family, Madevu s house is falling apart and he fears any rainfall could bring down the old makuti thatched roof house. To him, Mohamed was his only bread winner. Since we won the case, it has been nothing but silence. We cannot push the government which lost the court battle, we don t know if you can help us get justice, he says.Madevu, who is a village elder, recalls that on the material day and time he was walking home from Malindi town with Charo, the 87-year-old man and decided to use a shortcut.Little did he know that was the same time his son together with the other four deceased persons, were being murdered along the route they had avoided.Later they learnt that there had been a shootout and police were dispersing people from the scene. My eldest son came home and took me to Malindi Hospital mortuary where the bodies had been taken. The first body shown to me was my son. It was tough and hard to believe he had been killed, he says as tears drop down to his cheeks.What followed he said, were a series of processes from postmortem, looking for witnesses to record statements and travelling to Kilifi for the inquest hearing.Madevu however revealed a problem that was haunting him each day and night. My bigger problem now is if it rains my house will collapse, I pray if you people can help us get compensation, he said.Charo can barely walk upright, but memories of the extrajudicial killings which took place on November 12 2007 are still fresh in his mind.Though speaking in a low tone, he is still yet to come to terms with the loss of his son who was not only the sole bread winner of the family but facilitated the education of all the children. My son was innocent, there was no reason for him to be gunned down. Now I am suffering alone, I need assistance to get justice. We went to court and we were to be compensated but nothing has been done since 2011, he said.For Elber who is Akinyi s sister the memories of her late kin can never fade from her mind.Akinyi was new in Malindi and had a child who is now in form two. She was working part time and preparing to do her hospitality diploma course at Jardin Lorna in Malindi. Elber, as an elder sister used to cater for her transport and accomodation costs.Her younger sister s death caught her by surprise as that day her phone was off as usual as their company does not allow phones to be on at work. I got information that there were people who had been gunned down, one of them was Kariuki my tuk tuk driver. I went straight to the morgue to check him to confirm if it s true, only to find my sister lying dead, she said.Since Akinyi was new and no one knew her, she had been labelled as an unidentified person. I do not know what happened there after, she recalled while trying hard to hold back tears.At the time she was shot, her sister was working part time at Baobab area in Malindi town doing laundry for a private company.Her sister had a bright future after completing her studies. She never expected her life would be cut short by the trigger hungry officers in the name of combating criminal gangs targeting innocent people. At the time she died she had a seven-year-old boy, now in form two. It s not been easy psychological and financially, she says.After the judgement she says among the many things directed included arrest and prosecution of the suspects but that has never happened.For them they would not benefit much if the police officers are arrested but it would really help them move on with a feeling of justice done. Later she says, their lawyer brought succession forms, each family signed but he later told them the papers had disappeared at the airport.Elber says they have been in many forums trying to present their case including before the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission.However all those who made promises now do not pick their calls, leaving them no option but to give up. We have never seen justice because we are poor, we spent so much on transport and suffer mental torture, she says.To her, there has never been justice in Kenya for cases of extra judicial killings and if it will happen, will be the first case.As for Agutu, who lost her husband Ibrahim Daudi Charo in the bloody shootout, she was left with the burden of bringing up four children alone.Life has become tougher since her business as a beach operator went down and is currently facing many challenges.Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims chairman Kilifi County Sheikh Salim Omar Dima who knows the family members says the victims were innocent.He recalls how in the week leading to their deaths, he spent a lot of times with some of them praying in the mosque and wondered how the police claimed that they were tracking them for long.Dima told the new Chief Justice to help the family get justice as they have suffered psychologically.Efforts to get a comment from the Police Spokesman Charles Owino were fruitless as his phone went unanswered and never replied messages sent by the Star.