Cord leader Raila Odinga has accused President Uhuru Kenyatta of tapping his phone calls and taken issue with his earlier description of him as "backward and petty".Uhuru used the two words to describe Raila in an address at Jubilee Party's inaugural meeting of the National Governing Council. This concerned the the Sh6.8 billion Northern Water Collector Tunnel project and allegations of a Sh5.3 billion scandal at the Health ministry.He also told Jubilee members that he knew Raila was going to hold a press conference about a dam project just to hunt for votes."I know Uhuru listens to my phone calls. He heard me talking to a friend about the project. That is why he was trying to pre-empt my statement," said Raila.He made the allegation against him when he addressed the media on the ongoing Sh38 billion Itare Dam construction at the Mau water tower.Read: Angry Uhuru turns Jubilee meet into Raila attack arenaAlso read: Raila using water project to gain political points, Wairia says, defends JubileeUhuru, who did not call Raila by name in his entire address at Bomas of Kenya in Nairobi, said the opposition chief thrives on propaganda and lies."You must understand a man and his thinking of his backwardness and pettiness... pettiness... pettiness..." he said.Raila hit back at him over the comments saying what he was talking about was of national importance and should not be taken lightly by the President."Uhuru is scared. Why is he talking about it today when I am going to talk about it? He is scared... these are pertinent issues and we are not exaggerating," he said."This is a national, not individual issue. I cannot be silenced. It is my role as the opposition chief to keep the government in check when it errs."Raila said he had no reason to incite people over such serious concerns, further asking Uhuru to accept that his Jubilee administration was riddled in scandals."The fact remains that we have scandals ranging from the NYS to the Health ministry. You cannot wash them away; nswer questions in regards to corruption," he told Uhuru.The Cord leader also said Murang'a leaders who were defending the water project had been bribed and threatened to stop talking about the venture."Hao viongozi walitishwa wakapewa chai (Those leaders were called and given 'tea'). They have turned into hero worshipers," he said.Raila said on October 10 that he wanted the water collector tunnel project stopped as it is a "secret, ridiculous" Jubilee initiative. He also said it will turn counties into deserts.He claimed Jubilee conceptualised, commissioned and commenced construction of the water tunnel without establishing its impact on the environment.More on this: Jubilee's Sh6.8bn secret water project will turn counties to deserts - RailaAlso read: Athi board says Murang'a project won't reduce water levels in riversRaila further asked Jubilee to suspend the building of the Itare Dam to allow public participation."The constitution requires the government to consult all stakeholders before embarking on mega projects affecting their lives," he said.Raila said the dam is being constructed at a time when Mau Forest has been taken over by senior government officials.He said water is being diverted from several parts of the country to Nakuru for use in the personal projects of top Jubilee leaders.Dam projects in the Rift Valley are to divert water to commercial projects linked to the President, he added.Also read: Work on Kenya s biggest water tunnel to begin