Luhya leaders have urged ODM leader Raila Odinga to back Musalia Mudavadi&rsquo;s National Super Alliance, despite some expressing doubt he will join Nasa.They said the opposition stands a better chance of removing Jubilee from power if Raila backs Mudavadi for President.Vihiga Governor Moses Akaranga yesterday hinted that Mudavadi may go it alone with an alliance outside Cord.&ldquo;I doubt ODM party leader Raila Odinga will agree to join and work with Mudavadi&rsquo;s National Super Alliance. I would suggest that he joins the ANC leader&rsquo;s coalition if he wants to see the Jubilee government out of power,&rdquo; he told the Star on the phone.&ldquo;The Mulembe nation will be united if they have one of their own as a strong presidential candidate.&rdquo;Akaranga asked colleagues to stop sabotaging Luhya unity. Join super allianceMudavadi has urged Cord co-principals Raila, Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula to join Nasa. But the reality of the three political heavyweights joining remains a mirage less than nine months to the August polls.&ldquo;2017 will be the year when things will change. We are talking and Nasa is growing. We will use it to get rid of Jubilee and stop its leaders from stealing Kenyan money. We will use Nasa to catch the thieves,&rdquo; Mudavadi said.&ldquo;Anybody who will be outside Nasa will be part of Jubilee. They are the people we want to eject from office because they are stealing from Kenyans.&rdquo;Kalonzo as running mateVihiga MP Yusuf Chanzu said Raila should shelve his presidential ambition and support Mudavadi, with Kalonzo as the running mate.&ldquo;Mudavadi and Kalonzo will be the best pair to deliver victory as this will consolidate the Luhya vote,&rdquo; he said.After winning, Mudavadi will bring in Raila as an adviser to the government, Chanzu said.MPs Ayub Savula (Lugari) and Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East) last week said there are behind-the-scenes negotiations between Cord and Mudavadi. The two alleged Raila sent political emissaries to Mudavadi to compel him to drop his presidential bid and instead run for Nairobi governor.The reports were dismissed by Mudavadi&rsquo;s spokesman Kibisu Kabatesi as &ldquo;hogwash&rdquo; and part of a scheme by Jubilee to scuttle the Nasa take-off.Yesterday, in a press statement signed by ODM director of communications Philip Etale, leaders from Western said they will hold a Regional Delegates&rsquo; Convention on Friday to discuss election preparations.&ldquo;We want our people to have a say on the choice of the flag-bearer,&rdquo; deputy party leader Wycliffe Oparanya said. &ldquo;Our region has been forgotten in development. We want leadership that will revive our dead and ailing industries and not empty promises.&rdquo; Raila will attend the one-day event.