Ask any woman to tip out the contents of her make-up bag and you re likely to be met with a guilty grimace. I have always considered myself fairly low-maintenance yet when I turn out my make-up bag, I am shocked to discover I regularly use a whopping 16 different products, from BB (blemish balm) cream to concealer to eyeshadow.The contents of my battered bag add up to Sh40,000 and applying them all takes me 25 minutes. But in an age of multi-tasking, why can t a lipstick double up as a blusher, or a foundation work as a concealer?With this in mind, I swapped my usual 16 products for just three, multi-function items. Here s how I got on . . .THE SUPER FOUNDATIONWHAT: Max Factor Face Finity All Day Flawless 3 in 1 Foundation, Sh1800 for 30mlTHE CLAIM: This holds like a primer, corrects like a concealer, with the long-lasting finish of a liquid foundation with SPF 20 .REPLACES: BB cream, primer, foundation, concealer and translucent powder, which cost Sh15,400.APPLICATION: I brushed the foundation to my face, then blended. I applied more around the dark shadows of the eye area as I would a concealer. This took all of one minute, whereas my usual five products take me nearer ten. The effect was fine until after lunchtime when this multi-function make-up needed topping up.VERDICT: The 3 in 1 is certainly cheap, fast to apply and lightweight to carry. But it didn t hold well on my skin, all but sliding off. A handy standby for when I m on-the-run, but I won t be swapping my five trusty regulars for this.Rating: 4/10CHEEKS AND LIPSWHAT: Nudestix Lip and Cheek pencil, Sh3,300 (includes sharpener)THE CLAIM: An extra-creamy soft-feeling lip-liner, lip colour and cheek cream all in one , promising colour, cover and blendability .REPLACES: Lip-liner, lipstick and gloss, blusher and highlighter, which cost Sh10,000.APPLICATION: I applied pencil around my lip line, then filled in over the lips themselves. I thought the sensation of using a pencil rather than a velvety lipstick would be odd, but it felt remarkably smooth. And when I simply drew a pencil-line on my cheeks, I was sure it would be obvious even after blending, but the effect was natural.VERDICT: Normally I would use different shades for lips and cheeks, but I loved this and would use it again. Even the tin box it comes in looks classy. Rating: 10/10 EYE AREATHE PRODUCT: Giorgio Armani Eye and Brow Maestro, Sh3,700, applicator, Sh2,800THE CLAIM: A waterproof cream that features a dual transformation texture. The solid cream becomes liquid on application then sets on the skin for lasting hold. -REPLACES: Two separate eyeliners, eyeshadow, brow pencil, brow fixer gel and mascara, worth Sh14,000.APPLICATION: Using a specially designed applicator a brush at one end to shape the brows, and an angled flat brush at the other to apply liner or colour to the lid I painted on a flicked line on top of my lashes, some shading underneath the eye, and blended colour on the lid. It took barely two minutes compared to the normal 11. Nothing smudged and it stayed on all day.VERDICT: With nine shades to choose from, a tiny compact and a clever brush, this product is a multi-tasker. Rating: 9/10CAN 16 BECOME THREE?With the price of my make-up regime slashed by Sh28,000 (and the time needed reduced from 25 minutes to a scant five, the three wonder products are impressive, despite having to touch up the 3-in-1 foundation part way through the day.With more practice, I could achieve everything I get from my normal routine. But for a special occasion, I would stick with my carefully chosen, separate products.