MPs have called for tight security ahead of the 2017 general election following a physical attack on Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma.Kaluma, a vocal opposition lawmaker and frequent House debater, was kicked, punched and wrestled to the ground by Washington Ogaga, who will vie for his seat in the 2017 poll.He told the House, which was treated to light moments on Tuesday, that: I nearly died, I just survived death. The MP walked to the chambers flanked by ODM Parliamentary Group secretary Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja) and a host of MPs. This is a serious matter touching on our own security as we approach the 2017 general election," he added in his point of order before session Speaker Moses Cheboi granted him a chance to speak.Majority leader Aden Duale said the hooliganism was synonymous with the party led by opposition leader Raila Odinga. I want Kaluma to listen to me... I formed ODM and I can tell you that you are a victim of circumstances and that Baba is aware why you were clobbered," he said. "Find out why you were clobbered in his presence."Read: Ranguma's arm hurt after shameless MPs exchange blows in Homa BayThis forced Wandayi to vehemently defend the party saying it is organised and values Kaluma. Kaluma is a very valued member of the ODM party. The scuffle was internal and we are addressing it," he said. The comments by Duale are misplaced... ODM is an organised party."Deputy minority leader Jakoyo Midiwo said: Making a joke out of a big thing is unfortunate One of us nearly lost his life. You saw him tossed and rolled down and the gentleman was armed."He added: "Before we go for elections we must strengthen campaign violence laws so that we do not fight while looking for seats."Midiwo claimed Ogaga recorded a statement seeking the arrest of the Homa bay Town MP and warning Jubilee against attempts to seize the moment to punish him. That crook has also gone to the police to try to have Kaluma arrested. The way you misuse police... Anything can happen at any time, he said.Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi was more blunt. This is not a laughing matter. When I saw two men, one lying on top of another, and a lady clapping and seemingly enjoying it... I hope it will not happen in the elections, he said.Homa bay woman representative Gladys Wanga said: I was shocked when Kaluma who was supposed to be working well under me, was whining under somebody else. I am sympathetic and feel the pain for him."ODM officials earlier said the party will take stern action against those responsible for the chaos that marred its rally in Homa Bay last Sunday.Chief Executive Officer Oduor Ong wen and national chairman John Mbadi said eight culprits had been identified and that investigations were ongoing.Ong wen said the eight, whom he did not name, would face ODM's disciplinary committee and that their names would be submitted to the party's National Elections Board.More on this: Culprits behind Homa Bay fracas to face disciplinary committee - ODM