Esther Passaris has urged women not to be discouraged by men out to discredit them while going for leadership positions.Miguna Miguna has dismissed a video clip of an exchange with her during KTN s Jeff Koinange Live Show on Wednesday night.In the clip the Nairobi governor aspirant is shouting with his hands in the air everybody is raping Esther...Esther is so beautiful... everybody wants to rape her ... The Media Council of Kenya yesterday said although it believes in media freedom, the comments made on the show violated the law on tone, taste and obscenity.Chief executive Haron Mwangi said, The guests used disparaging remarks against each other on air. He advised producers and host Jeff Koinange to be mindful of what transpires in their shows and moderate guests.Passaris, who is also an aspirant for governor, did not take Miguna s comments lightly. You are so sick...You are so jealous and I can t even look at you... really...really... you are so disgusting, she said. But undeterred by the soft words from Passaris, Miguna continued talking, gesturing at the operator recording the video. You are chasing men all over... Esther, nobody wants you. ..you are too old... nobody wants you..who wants you ..who wants you...? he said. Esther... nobody wants you ... you think you are beautiful... you are not. Clad in a black suit and red tie, Miguna told Passaris all she has is the colour of her skin. It s just colour...Esther, it s just colour... Without the colour you are nothing...you are absolutely zero...you are zero...you are not beautiful... You have nothing..., said the lawyer. The cartels who think you are beautiful... they sent you here. Koinange and the crew are seen unshaken and laughing at the argument as they go on with the show.But Passaris, who was left speechless, got more furious as time went by.She told Miguna off, saying, Get used to the idea that you will never be the governor. Shut up, really...you are so racist.... In a post on Twitter yesterday, Passaris urged women not to be discouraged by men like Miguna. Men like Miguna have no place or role to play in our empowerment. He is part of the problem. Let s be even more determined to take our place at the table, she said.Passaris said women are not perfect but continue striving for more. I encourage women not to shy away from leadership for fear of victimisation, character assassination and prejudices of patriarchy, she said.But Miguna said via Twitter that some parts of the video were omitted. The video omits the portion where Passaris accused me of rape... She did not specify whom I allegedly raped, he said. The cartels are out in full force with falsehoods, propaganda and threats. Let s stick to the truth. Miguna said the cartels are trying to besmirch his reputation with edited and contrived videos, adding, but the people of Nairobi have decided. Esther Passaris purports to be vying for Nairobi governor as Esther Passaris ... she cannot therefore project herself merely as a woman, he said. Noting he has immense respect for women, Miguna said he does not respect hypocrites and opportunists. ...those who use their gender to seek or obtain advantages that they don t deserve, he said.