Jubilee yesterday threw heavy punches at Cord as it accused Mombasa and Kilifi counties, led by ODM governors, of corruption and massive landgrabbing.More than 20 MPs and governors accompanied Deputy President William Ruto for a rally in the Tononoka Grounds, which doubled as the launch of the Jubilee Party Coast chapter. Ruto, who had been on a four-day tour of the Coast, said Mombasa is key to Jubilee s plans of making Kenya a better nation.He defended the government against corruption allegations, saying all the projects Jubilee has undertaken would not have been possible with the amount of corruption Cord desperately tries to smear the administration with . We are not available for propaganda, Ruto said.He enumerated the initiatives Jubilee has taken in Mombasa and the entire Coast to make life better for residents, including issuing more than 600,000 title deeds and solving the Waitiki land headache. The opposition only raises land questions, but Jubilee has answers to the questions, Ruto said.He said Jubilee has allocated the largest amounts of money for water projects at the Coast, including Sh42 million for the Mzima Springs in Taita Taveta county, Sh13 billion for the Mwache Dam in Kwale county and Sh3 billion for the Baricho Waterworks in Kilifi county. But the opposition will always spread propaganda to discredit the projects. As we speak, they are planning to politicise Mwache Dam and Mzima Springs projects. Cord should stop destructive politics, Ruto said.He said it would only be fair that Coast residents open their eyes and see the development projects being undertaken so they determine which political wing is friendly to the region.Ruto said the health sector in Mombasa has greatly benefited from the Jubilee government through the healthcare modernisation programmes, which delivered a new intensive care unit, radiology and RDU machines.The rally elicited an immediate reaction from ODM, whose governors Amason Kingi (Kilifi) and Hassan Joho (Mombasa) sent out messages of a planned rally in Mtwapa. Ruto and National Assembly majority leader Aden Duale said ODM leader Raila Odinga and his brigade plan violence and blackmail against the IEBC.Jubilee yesterday threw heavy punches at Cord as it accused Mombasa and Kilifi counties, led by ODM governors, of corruption and massive landgrabbing.More than 20 MPs and governors accompanied Deputy President William Ruto for a rally in the Tononoka Grounds, which doubled as the launch of the Jubilee Party Coast chapter. Ruto, who had been on a four-day tour of the Coast, said Mombasa is key to Jubilee s plans of making Kenya a better nation.He defended the government against corruption allegations, saying all the projects Jubilee has undertaken would not have been possible with the amount of corruption Cord desperately tries to smear the administration with . We are not available for propaganda, Ruto said.He enumerated the initiatives Jubilee has taken in Mombasa and the entire Coast to make life better for residents, including issuing more than 600,000 title deeds and solving the Waitiki land headache. The opposition only raises land questions, but Jubilee has answers to the questions, Ruto said.He said Jubilee has allocated the largest amounts of money for water projects at the Coast, including Sh42 million for the Mzima Springs in Taita Taveta county, Sh13 billion for the Mwache Dam in Kwale county and Sh3 billion for the Baricho Waterworks in Kilifi county. But the opposition will always spread propaganda to discredit the projects. As we speak, they are planning to politicise Mwache Dam and Mzima Springs projects. Cord should stop destructive politics, Ruto said.He said it would only be fair that Coast residents open their eyes and see the development projects being undertaken so they determine which political wing is friendly to the region.Ruto said the health sector in Mombasa has greatly benefited from the Jubilee government through the healthcare modernisation programmes, which delivered a new intensive care unit, radiology and RDU machines.The rally elicited an immediate reaction from ODM, whose governors Amason Kingi (Kilifi) and Hassan Joho (Mombasa) sent out messages of a planned rally in Mtwapa. Ruto and National Assembly majority leader Aden Duale said ODM leader Raila Odinga and his brigade plan violence and blackmail against the IEBC.