Traffic police officers along the Mai Mahiu-Narok road are a worried lot. Reason? Corridors has been told the officers have developed a habit of erecting illegal roadblocks along the busy road and turning them into bribe-demanding cash cows. Their worry is that newly appointed Chief Justice David Maraga could soon issue orders for action to be taken. They fear that Maraga, who uses the route going to and coming from his rural home in Nyamira county, will catch some of them red-handed demanding bribes from motorists. Some officials at the Ministry of Water and Irrigation are in panic mode after learning bidders have complained to the EACC they allowed MPs to identify sites for construction of 87 water pans valued at Sh1.3 billion. Those who have complained claim bribes were paid to award the winners and say it is illegal to allow MPs to identify the sites without conducting feasibility studies as per the law. The complainants claim a meeting held in Machakos by the tender committee at the ministry sealed the tenders and the PS is about to sign them. Are the PS and CS Eugene Wamalwa aware of this anomaly? Government suppliers who had hoped to be paid last week after waiting for one year are a frustrated lot. The businessmen, who include a host of MPs and senators, were shocked when the IFMIS system reportedly crashed on Wednesday last week. It is said several MPs are still in shock, since they had written cheques to churches and fundraising occasions. Several MPs are reportedly on the run after their cheques bounced. Just why did a senior procurement officer at City Hall manhandle an aide of Governor Evans Kidero? A little bird tells Corridors that the officer shouted at the aide in public. The aide had reportedly gone to the officer s office to confirm whether an LPO that has been doing the rounds on social media was genuine. It is said the officer lost his temper, landing the aide in hot soup. Corridors wonders why the officer reacted that harshly. Could he possibly have an interest in the LPO? A popular sports journalist who works for a top sports brand has become a bother to many sportspeople. The man in question, who hails from this country, is known for extorting money from sportspeople, especially footballers, in exchange for articles in newspapers. The journalist targets foreign players as the local ones have rumbled him. A West African player was overheard complaining about the guy s behaviour and revealed how he has been forcing him to invite him to Europe and Nigeria.