Republican Donald Trump has sensationally won the White House race."Thank you very much. I have just received a call from secretary Clinton and she congratulated us for our victory and I congratulated her and her family," he said on Wednesday.Read: Clinton calls President-elect Donald J Trump to concede defeatSpeaking at the Trump headquarters, he said he owes Clinton a great debt of service to the American people."We have to get together ... its time for us to come together as one both Democrats and Republican ... I will be president to all Americans and this is important to me," he said."It's time to work together. I reach out to those who did not support me for we need to work together."Amid cheers from the crowd, Trump gave a speech that left many of his supporters giggling and laughing their hearts out."Ours was not a campaign but a movement. This political stuff is nasty and it's tough!" he said."We will always put America s interest first but we will deal fairly with everyone.We will seek common ground not hostility."Trump also took a moment to thank his family, adding that no man or women will be forgotten anymore."... I love you ... I want to thank my family. I know my parents are looking down on me but i love you all ..." he said.The bizarre ending to Clinton s political career came after Trump confounded pollsters at every turn, capturing one 'swing' state after another in a line of toppled dominoes that stretched across three time zones and now ends at the White House.The last to fall was the Keystone State after Florida, North Carolina, Georgia and Wisconsin all went to the Republican. That gave him 274 votes in the electoral college the winner is the first to achieve 270.He is also winning in the popular vote by a more than one per cent margin.Trump also comes into the presidency with Republican control over the Senate and the House of Representatives.More on this: Republicans maintain control of Senate, House as Trump victory is assuredEarlier, Barack Obama's downbeat election night message was compared to a concession today after he told Americans: "No matter what happens, the sun will rise in the morning".The outgoing US President has urged the country to stay calm after the most divisive campaign in living memory.He now looks increasingly likely to be replaced in the White House by Donald Trump, barring a late surge from Hillary Clinton.In video message for Buzzfeed News he said: "Let's face it. This has been an exhausting, stressful and sometimes downright weird election for all of us. "But here's what I want everybody to know: While we've certainly seen some new things this time around, what isn't new is that our democracy has always been rowdy and raucous.We've been through tough and divisive elections before and we've always come out stronger for it.More on this: Obama to Americans: 'No matter what happens, the sun will rise in the morning'