Juja residents have raised fears that assassins have turned their bushy Kalkuta village into a site for dumping bodies.The Kiambu county villagers said three bodies have been found dumped int he area in the last three months. The spoke to journalists on Wednesday, days after the body of Kiru Boys' Secondary School principal Solomon Mwangi was found in a thicket at Karuntuma coffee farm. The bodies are usually stuffed in sacks. Two months ago a primary school pupil's body was found just a few meters from where the principal s body was found," said resident James Mwangi."We are concerned that criminals are turning our village into a dumpsite for their victims."Mwangi said residents have become more cautious of their movements in and out of the village. Our children are so traumatised that we have to escort them to school because the path leading to the school leads through the bushes, he said.The man said bodies of people are mistaken for chicken remains from slaughter houses, which are also dumped in the area. Anonymous people have been dumping slaughtered chicken parts which produce a foul smell. So whenever there is a decomposing body, people assume the foul smell is from the remains, said Mwangi.Nyumba Kumi elder Mary Nduku said a resident informed her last Friday that a group of boys had stumbled upon the principal's body. A sack of chicken feathers was on his face. We could only see his white shirt and legs, said Nduku. The boys are traumatised and withdrawn."Read: Missing Kiru school principal found dead after week of frantic searchNduku said they suspected the body was dumped on Monday that week as dogs barked all night. Security personnel must act swiftly and apprehend the culprits behind the teacher s killing as this will serve as a warning to criminals who have made our village their dumpsite, she said.Detectives from the DCI s homicide unit visited the site where Mwangi s body was found and launched investigations into his murder.Mwangi went missing on November 6. Police arrested his wife Jane Muthoni after his mutilated body was found in the coffee estate.Murang a county commissioner John Elungata said his wife, Jane Muthoni was arrested on Sunday, as the prime suspect in the gruesome killing.Elungata said the woman, who is the principal of Ichachiri Boys' High School, was the prime suspect in the gruesome killing.Kiambu county is among areas where high crime incidences take place.According to National Police Service 2015 statistics, 4,768 crimes were reported in the area.Theft of motor vehicles too the lion share of these crimes at 27 percent.Read more: Kiru school principal's widow arrested, prime suspect in murder case - police