Chelsea Vs Everton Saturday 830pmMy Prediction: The Blues 1-1 The ToffeesChelsea have really picked up the pace over the last couple of weeks getting four wins on the trot and my worst fears are coming to pass. When the Blues faltered a while back I was smiling from ear to ear but I also knew that it was just a matter of time before Antonio Conte s plan began to work. He needed to find the right formula between his methods and the players at his disposal and I was hoping it would take much longer than it has. Chelsea are just one point off the leading pack of Man City, Arsenal and Liverpool and are looking good. Everton meanwhile have been struggling a bit in recent weeks although manager Ronald Koeman, who I respect immensely, got his first win in five matches last weekend against West Ham. They are in 6th though which indicates that they started the season strong; and perhaps they can regain that form again. Romelu Lukaku is scoring in nearly every game but his support needs to step up as well. Their 1-1 draw with league leaders Man City at the Etihad Stadium will give them courage travelling to Stamford Bridge. They actually can come away with a point.Arsenal Vs Tottenham Sunday 3pmMy Prediction: The Gunners 3-1 SpursOh I am so looking forward to this game because traditionally these are our biggest rivals in the league. The North London derby is never pretty and I recall a year it ended 4-4 because we were so tied in everything. Both teams have great squads although I must say Arsenal are looking a little more organized right now. Manager Arsene Wenger seems to be doing all the right things and he just needs to continue with that. Even though Olivier Giroud came on last weekend to score; I don t think Wenger should start him just yet. I think making him a super sub gets more out of the French striker because he feels he has more to prove. Spurs are just three points behind Arsenal in the table and believe it or not they are unbeaten in the league so far this season. A string of draws though haven t done them any favours. In recent weeks Mauricio Pochettino has seen his side draw with the likes of West Brom and Bournemouth but Spurs usually step up for the match up against the mighty Gunners. They lost midweek to Bayer Leverkusen in the Champions League and I think their focus was on this game. Too bad because we are going to make things really tough for them at Emirates Stadium. Liverpool Vs Watford Sunday 5:15pmMy Prediction: The Reds 2-1 WatfordLiverpool need to be careful here! Watford are above Manchester United in the league standings so this game will be tougher than the one I went to watch at Anfield three weeks ago! Hehe Okay the Reds are looking good and will be well rested given that they aren t in any European tournament. They are still excited about Jurgen Klopp being nominated as Coach of the Year and while I should be jealous given that I m a Gunner, I actually respect the German tactician. I think he deserves it. The Reds have become a joy to watch and if I m really honest with you; I know that Watford won t give them a hard time despite the fact that Walter Mazzarri has turned things around for them and is getting results. I think that Anfield support will be too much to bear. Swansea Vs Manchester United SundayMy Prediction: The Swans 1-3 The Red DevilsFenerbahce! That s how you scare a Man United player. Just mention the name of the last team that beat them and you re good to go! I was so confident that United would turn their bad fortunes around and get a win in Turkey but it wasn t to be. The Red Devils haven t won a game in the league since their 4-1 victory over champions Leicester on the 24th of September. They scored just one goal in the entire month of October and it s looking like Jose Mourinho and not my Arsene Wenger is the specialist in failure! But they are in luck. Swansea are in the relegation zone and have just one win since the season started. They cannot beat a women s team right now and if United can t take advantage of that then they really are sunk! Mourinho has blamed his players for their poor run saying their Turkey performance was as if they were playing a summer friendly! But we all know how things go when the coach begins to blame the players; he starts to lose the dressing room and it s never the players who leave. Mourinho knows that story too well so I don t know why he s even playing that game! But of all teams to beat this season; Swansea should be the easiest.