More than 2,000 residents who have fled their homes following attacks in Kapedo, on the border of Baringo and Turkana counties, are in dire need of humanitarian aid.Violence has broken out in Lomelo, Pulpusion and Kamuge villages between the Turkana and Pokot communities since Friday.Tension is still high, as unconfirmed reports indicate more than 20 people may have been killed. Several others are said to be injured and more than 2,000 displaced. Our people are scattered in various villages in Tiaty subcounty, Lomelo chief Christopher Achuka told the Star on the phone yesterday.He said the attackers drove away an unknown number of livestock towards Turkana South.Achuka said residents who fled with their animals need food, water and clothing. He urged the government and well-wishers to assist them.Silale MCA Nelson Lotela on Monday condemned the killings and urged the government to move in fast to avert more deaths. We now wonder where to graze and water our animals after the sudden displacement, he said.Meanwhile, two Pokot youths are feared dead after a fierce gunfight between Marakwets and Pokots in Tot village, Elgeyo Marakwet county, on Sunday.The two were said to have been in the company of two others and were armed with AK-47 rifles. They are said to have intended to raid Chesongoch and Tot villages, when they were ambushed. Survivors Wilson Domaria, 17, and Evans Kipkemoi, 18, escaped the Sunday 1pm ordeal. They are nursing gunshot wounds under tight security at the Baringo Referral Hospital in Kabarnet.Government officials are yet to give official information on the number of people killed and displaced in the Kerio Valley and Kapedo attacks.Baringo county police commander Peter Ndung u said the tension on the ground is hampering movement of humanitarian agencies and reporters. We are still investigating, he said.Ndung u said the county has been peaceful since last year and attributed the reemergence of violence to the migrating pastoralists looking for water and pasture for their animals.He said security authorities in Turkana are better placed to comment on the clashes in Turkana South.The ongoing attacks occurred amid reports that there are more than 5,000 illegal guns in the hands of North Rift residents.In May last year, an estimated 92 people were reportedly killed after bandits staged two heavy counter-raids along the borders between Pokot East, Turkana and Samburu.Among the dead were 51 Pokots and 42 from the Turkana community, of whom more than 20 were women and children.At least 46 were killed and scores injured after a raid by bandits believed to be from Turkana on a village in Nadome on the Turkana-East Pokot border.A fight between herders from the two communities led to the killing of more people. Eight other people were shot dead in a village on the border between Samburu and Turkana East.Heavily armed raiders suspected to be from Samburu attacked Nakoriakwang village, killing seven people and stealing more than 600 livestock.Two government helicopters were used to carry out surveillance in the areas, but fighting went on as the authorities made efforts to quell the situation. Top security officers from Nakuru were also flown to the area as the roads were in poor condition.