Officers in the Western region yesterday launched a major operation in search of a criminal gang that raided the Booker police post in Mumias and made away with seven G3 rifles.The only officer manning the post was injured and taken to St Mary s Mission Hospital in critical condition.The post, situated in the Mumias Sugar Company premises, is manned by at least one police officer every night.Western region police commandant Moses Ombati said initial investigations indicated the thugs purported to be victims seeking assistance. They entered the post at around 3am yesterday and turned on the officer, hitting him with crude weapons. They assaulted him to the point he lost consciousness, then they broke into the armoury and made away with the seven rifles, Ombati said.He said the thugs also stole nine magazines each containing 20 rounds of ammunition. In total they went away with 184 rounds of ammunition. This is very dangerous to the lives of civilians, Ombati said.The injured officer was reportedly discovered lying in a pool of blood by the officer in charge of the police post at 5am, when the person in-charge made rounds after reporting on duty.Ombati said the police post initially had four officers on duty, but three of them responded to a distress call.However, unconfirmed reports from Mumias Sugar employees indicated the station has four police officers, but is always manned by one police officer as the other three carry out night patrols around the company estates. Currently, we have no information concerning the raiders, but we have launched investigations and soon we will get full details, Ombati said. We have erected roadblocks across the region and launched a manhunt in surrounding villages. We will not allow the firearms to remain in the hands of bad people, he said.Both regular, Administration Police and Flying Squad officers were deployed to the scene from Butere, Kakamega, Bungoma, Busia, Khwisero and other subcounties in the Western region.By the time we went to the press, 20 people had been arrested and put in the Booker police post cell. It was, however, unclear whether their arrest was in connection with the robbery.Ombati said it was the first police robbery in Western region.Senior security officers in Mumias, including the OCPD and deputy county commissioner, stay in the Mumias Sugar premises for managers.Other middle level officers stay on the Lower Central estate, 600 metres away from the police post.Isukha Central MCA Richard Muchesia visited the scene. He said, I am shocked such an incident can occur in an area that is always busy. There is always traffic to and from the Mumias Sugar factory. This area is fully lit with Mumias Sugar lights. It is surprising no alarm was raised and no commotion was experienced during the operation. I am highly concerned with the security of our people and I am worried that the level of poverty may increase the level of insecurity among the residents of Kakamega county if measures are not put in place to improve living standards. Muchesia raised concerns about the safety of residents. If a police station can be raided, how safe is the common mwananchi whose sole weapon is a panga and stones? He urged the government not to post cadets who have recently graduated from training as senior officers in charge of stations. This contributes to sabotage amongst officers in such stations. They need to be deployed as low-level officers before they rise to senior positions, Muchesia said.