The Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops yesterday urged the government to reconsider its decision to withdraw from the South Sudan peace process.On November 2, Kenya announced it would immediately withdraw more than 1,000 troops from the UN peackeeping mission in South Sudan.It said it would have nothing more to do with the peace process.Kenya s decision was triggered by the sacking of the Kenyan UN force commander over what the UN called failure to come to the aid of nearby civilians under attack.Kenya s decision has been criticised in various quarters, but Kenya says it was insulted and not consulted about removing Lt Gen Johnson Ondieki .In a statement read by chairman Bishop Philip Anyolo (Homa Bay Diocese), they said the endless strife in South Sudan is worrying. Many refugees enter Kenya s Kakuma camp from the war-torn state. Kenya has to take her traditional role of brokering peace in South Sudan, he said.The statement was read during the Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops annual meeting at Bishop Nicholas Stam Pastoral and Animation Centre in Kakamega. The meeting started on Monday and ended yesterday. Anyolo also condemned tribal and regional political realignments as a criteria for the 2017 elections. He said Kenyans must eradicate the mentality of having one of our own . This will threaten the peace where there are many communities living together, he said. We note with concern politicians are abandoning their responsibilities and shuttling from one corner to the other to secure a place for 2017 elections. Anyolo said politicians are busy tearing at each other and making dangerous statements capable of triggering ethnic tensions, clashes and violent political rivalry.The bishops condemned the violence in recent ward by-elections, ethnic conflicts between the Pokots and Marakwets and clashes between the Kisii, Maasai and Kipsigis communities.Anyolo said the government might not be able to control the situation if serious action is not taken now. He said infighting among greedy county leaders is hurting services.Anyolo said those committing economic crimes should not only be brought to book, but their ill-gotten wealth must be confiscated and returned. The leaders we see are no longer about service and development but money and power, he said.