The D-day is here. Stunning fashion blogger Sharon Mundia will say her "I do" today evening in a beach wedding to her long-time boyfriend, Lonina Leteipan.The location and date of the wedding ceremony were kept secret because Sharon feared that it would bring her unwanted attention from Kenyans online, like her engagement did.Sharon and Lonina will tie the knot in Watamu, Mombasa at a breathtaking hotel that has sky blue pools that overlook the ocean and beautiful Arabian architecture. Today at 3pm, Sharon will be walked down the aisle by her dad, media mogul Mundia Muchiri, at Medina Palms.The hotel has hosted various celebrities and personalities like Raila Odinga, Coke Studio's Zwai Bala, Anto Neo Soul among others. Here are some photos of the pristine and flawless hotel.In a past interview Sharon Mundia said, Okay, so I have gotten a lot of questions about this wedding and giving updates. I feel bad because I know I started thinking and saying I would share updates but then things changed after I shared my engagement story and then people just I don t know, the reactions that came about after. It made me nervous. It scared me. It made me feel like perhaps I was sharing too much because I was just sharing with the people who usually read my blog. But then it became this huge bonanza and I felt it was this big thing I couldn t control any more. It made me feel very nervous. So the idea of sharing no longer seemed appealing to me I decided never to share anything personal ever again because it is just too much but a part of me still wants to share in hopes that it wouldn t receive the kind of attention it did and that people would just have moved on with their lives and wouldn t care anymore. But I'm just too nervous, I don t know what to share. Despite all the secrecy, we got a hold of and invite for the wedding sent to friends and family of the bride and groom.Here is a photo of the bride and groom last night, ahead of the celebrations this evening.We wish them all the best in their nuptials.