ODM will take stern action against those responsible for the chaos that marred its rally in Homa Bay county last Sunday, officials have said.Chief Executive Officer Oduor Ong wen and national chairman John Mbadi said eight culprits had been identified and that investigations were ongoing.Ong wen said the eight, whom he did not name, would face ODM's disciplinary committee and that their names would be submitted to the party's National Elections Board.Consequences will include being barred from using the ODM ticket in the 2017 general election, he said on a show on Mayienga FM show on Tuesday morning.Ong'wen noted that the incident tainted the image of opposition leader Raila Odinga's party by portraying it as one of violence. ODM is not taking the issue lightly. Those found culpable will definitely be disqualified from using the party ticket in future elections, he said."We are focused on peaceful nominations and campaigns. The party cannot tolerate acts of violence."Read: Ranguma's arm hurt after shameless MPs exchange blows in Homa BayMbadi condemned the chaos that took place at Homa Bay Stadium and asked aspirants for various seats to desist from acts of hooliganism."It is quite unfortunate that our peaceful rally turned chaotic. We will investigate and ensure those responsible are dealt with accordingly, he told the Star by phone.Trouble started before Raila arrived from an event to mark the second anniversary of the death of former Senator Otieno Kajwang , in Waondo, Mbita constituency.It escalated when Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma engaged in a fist fight with rival Washington Ogaga. My opponent incited his supporters to kick mine out and remove my banner from the dais. He told me he did not want to see my supporters and the banner, he claimed.Ogaga said he was forced to defend himself because his security team was not available. I was entitled to defend myself. All I can recall is that we ended up on the ground before being separated," he said.The Homa Bay Town MP aspirant added that he had been preaching peace and would never attack Kaluma. He said all he has done is point out looting at the CDF office. Our supporters did not fight. It was between Kaluma and me. He came for my neck, he said.But he noted that they reconciled before the crowd that day."That was the first and last physical fight, he said.Kaluma could not be reached for comment as his phone was off.County police commander John Omusanga said they have not taken any action as nobody has filed a report or recorded a statement. Our doors are open for anybody aggrieved in that fiasco to report to us. Investigations have been delayed since no one has," he said.