AS the race to succeed National Assembly Clerk Justin Bundi (pictured) continues, a section of staff at Bunge is deeply worried. Corridors is reliably informed a junior staff member in Parliament s hotel section has threatened some colleagues across departments that they will be in for hard times should a frontrunner who happens to come from his ethnic community be appointed. The affected staff are so worried that though they regard the frontrunner as the most qualified, experienced and sober-minded, they fear the junior officer will walk all over them, should his prayers come to pass. THE huge amounts of money being dished out by a parliamentary aspirant in Kericho county have tongues wagging. Why? The man, who has also been using hired choppers every weekend, is not known to own a business empire that can so regally finance his political activities. Corridors has been told that the man who is considering running on the Kanu ticket and who is reported to be funded by a former Cabinet Secretary has appeared on the radar of National Intelligence Service officers in the county. NAIROBI governor aspirant Esther Passaris has made a public appeal not just to get your vote but also to help her coin the name of a political party that depicts unity and resonates with people of like minds . If you successfully propose the best name, you will not go home empty-handed. You will be rewarded with an untaxed Sh50,000. May the most creative man or woman win. IT appears politicians eyeing City Hall in 2017 will not avoid exhumation of their records and skeletons that characterise virtually all elections. Already, there are claims that one of the self-proclaimed and highly rated aspirants has questionable university academic credentials. Besides enrolling for a Master s degree before his undergraduate results are out, this governor hopeful is said to have had all his academic work handled by someone else, since at the time he was too busy to attend classes . AN aspirant for Webuye East MP never ceases to amaze. Recently, the man is reported to have joined a group of women who had gone to the village well to draw water. It s said the man in solidarity tied a leso round his waist and carried a 20-litre jerrycan on his head. Those in the know say the man has become such a darling of the women that he has been nicknamed Mama Watoto .