Police yesterday denied knowledge of any killing during Sunday s music extravaganza at Thika Stadium, where popular Kikuyu gospel singer Muigai wa Njoroge launched his album called Waku wa Muico.Thika West police boss Erastus Muthamia said no killing was reported, but his officers are investigating the allegation.Muthamia said soon after the function, 30 thugs armed with crude weapons started robbing and attacking fans and passersby outside the stadium and its environs. He said police officers moved in swiftly to disperse the thugs. one victim said, They ordered me to give them my phone, or else they would stab me. robbed of all valuablesHe said he was attacked by eight boys who took all his valuables and kicked him. He said similar incidents took place on the Kenyatta Highway, Stadium Road and near the Thika Stadium main stage.Muthamia said, All we know is that some people scampering for safety fell and were injured. He said his officers have a duty to maintain law and order.Muthamia dismissed claims the attacks were politically motivated.On Sunday evening and early yesterday, a section of the media reported that a man had been shot dead by police and several others injured when a group of hooligans attacked Kiambu Governor William Kabogo s supporters dressed in Kabogo Team T-shirts.Earlier, Kabogo, while addressing his supporters in Thika Stadium, accused some politicians of hiring goons to disrupt the event and heckle him. rowdy youthsHe did not elaborate. Kabogo and Waititu have already started early grassroots campaign for the 2017 general election.AP and regular police lobbed teargas canisters and fired live bullets in the air to disperse the rowdy youths. This turned into a cat and mouse game for more than one-and-a-half hours.The chaos paralysed activities in the Central Business District. Star reporters were holed in the stadium for more than an hour.They finally made their way out through the Thika main bus station at around 8pm.All that time, gunshots could be heard and police cars seen speeding with their sirens on, trying to maintain calm.When calm was restored, the town was jammed with stranded commuters. Fares were hiked threefold.