Martial artist win trip to train at Beijing International Arts SchoolThree Kenya kung-fu martial artists have won a trip to the Beijing International Arts School for a one-week training stint.Peter Kibe, Maurice Kwizera and Aphrodice Bakorubusa were selected during a StarTimes kung-fu festival at the Kenya International Conference Centre on Saturday.The trio will visit the renowned school next month where they are expected to sharpen their skills in the Chinese martial art known as WuShu. They could not hide their joy in securing the rare chance with Kibe. This is such a great opportunity and I will utilise it to learn the most I can as I seek to grow my skills, said 17 year old Kibe. I also hope this will help in furthering the sport in the country where the uptake has been limited to several clubs. This is a win win situation for all Kenyan kung-fu players. I have been training in the sport in Kenya for about 10 years now and I believe this will help us in reaching out for more interested individuals, said Bakorubusa. I want to assure Kenyans, especially those who love the sport that whatever I learn there, I will come back and share with them. Kwizera observed: I see a bright future ahead for the sport in Kenya since we believe we have just opened the door for such initiatives from the experts. I have sacrificed a lot learning and teaching the sport and with the expected training, my skills will improve and I will share them with the rest of the players The trio were selected in an elimination process that started on October 29 in Kiambu where 60 contestants took part.Of the number 10, went into a quarter final round with five being dropped. The semis, saw five more eliminated with the rest embarking on a grand finale that was witnessed by Kiprop Kioko, director of culture at the ministry of sports arts and the culture. It is our hope that this will go a long way towards developing the sport in Kenya, noted StarTimes Vice President Mark Lisboa.The Beijing International Arts school with an international martial arts exchange programme majoring in Kung Fu, acrobatics, sports training, dance performances, art painting, theater performances and musical performances.