The SGR, which will connect Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and South Sudan is the East African's biggest transport project, and is expected to reduce the cost of passenger and cargo transportation across the nations.Group managing director Meshack Kipturgo said: We are quite excited with the new developments we see in the country today, like the SGR. We believe that once the SGR is operational next year, we as a logistics company will be able to move some of our cargo by rail to Nairobi and later on to Uganda. He spoke after a media tour of the group s three divisions to showcase their different business interests including warehousing, logistics, transportation, and clearance and forwarding.However, Kipturgo said the government has to ensure the pricing of the SGR transportation is affordable and business friendly. If the pricing is right with the SGR, we will move our cargo by rail. But if it is expensive, we will use trucks to move cargo by road, Kipturgo said. He said the rail will not cover all areas thus the last mile will always be served by trucks. We can move the cargo by rail to Nairobi, then from Nairobi we move the cargo by road to, say, Turkana, the MD said.He said road transporters still have a space in the market. However, for the CFSs (Container Freight Stations) they will have to innovate. If they don t innovate, I think they will perish, Kipturgo said.The MD said though it has improved significantly, the Northern Corridor should be efficient if it wants to compete with the Central Corridor for cargo transportation.The Central Corridor serves Tanzania, Burundi, Rwanda and Zambia, while the Northern Corridor serves Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and South Sudan. We see a lot of efficiency in the Central Corridor. We are able to do 10,000km per month. In Kenya, we are only able to do 7,000km per month. So there is efficiency in the Central Corridor, and that is the area we need to improve in the Northern Corridor so that the transport cost can come down, Kipturgo said.He said operators along the Northern Corridor should be able to cover 12,000km per month.