Gor Mahia coach Marcelo Ze Maria Ferreira has been named Fidelity Insurance Coach of the Month for October.The youthful tactician was unanimously voted ahead of Tusker s Paul Nkata and Sofapaka s John Baraza. Ze Maria led the defending champions to victories over Mathare United and AFC Leopards but succumbed to late pressure from Western Stima to draw two-all to cap an anxious month with seven points.Nkata also managed to amass seven points from Bandari and Sony Sugar victories in addition to a draw with City Stars. The third contestant for October gong John Baraza, registered six points for relegation-threatened Sofapaka after AFC Leopards and Muhoroni Youth victories but was pegged back by a 1-0 away loss to Sony Sugar.Ze Maria become the second foreign tactician to win the Fidelity award following earlier triumph by former AFC Leopards coach Ivan Minnaert. Other past winners include Zedekiah Otieno of Posta Rangers, Francis Kimanzi (Mathare United), Salim Babu (Sony Sugar), Francis Baraza (Chemelil Sugar) and Henry Zagallo Omino (Western Stima) who remains the only coach to win it twice. I m happy to get this award but it s for my players. They have played like champions in the past five matches and for that I dedicate the award to them, said the former Brazil international, who has promised to show that his team deserved the league title in the season-ender against champions Tusker. We can give a guard to Tusker but we ll show them on the pitch that we are better. I feel sorry for my players for losing the title because of deducted points but we ll start working for next year very early. I want us to start 2017 on a high in order to wrap the title early, added the 43-year-old coach.Meanwhile, Kenyan striker Michael Olunga has been nominated for the Swedish Premier League New Player of the Year award.The former Gor Mahia ace, who plies his trade at IF Djurgardens scored 12 goals for the Allsvenskan side this season and will now battle with Alexander Isaac of AIK and Jesper Karlsson of Falkenberg FF in the nomination list.The awards gala will be held on Thursday, November 17 where winners selected by a jury of Allsvenskans 16 head coaches and captains plus 32 selected journalists and experts will be announced. Olunga is known for performing and getting awards going by his track record. He emerged the 2015 Kenyan Premier League most valuable player of the year while at Gor Mahia, just a two years after he was named the Kenyan Premier League s New Young Player of the year with Tusker FC. additional reports by Goal.com