Through his 'Mng'aro Mtaani' community-based organisation, Samuel 'Torez' Oduor ensures that people who live and work at dumpsites in Nairobi dress decently.In his one bedroom house in Babadogo, Nairobi, his two jovial children play with a doll, maybe not aware what their father Samuel Oduor, also known as Torez, had to endure while at their age 20 years ago.Living in Korogocho slums and having lost his parents when nine years old, Torez moved in with an auntie but they would fall out and he would be forced to take up the responsibility of taking care of himself and his younger sister.Life was uncertain for the father of 2, he never thought he would be who and what he is today.Torez, who is a videographer with the World Vision rented his own house at 13. He would then start working at the dandora dumpsite. I would collect plastics for sale and I would make between Sh20 and Sh70 a day which I would use for food and pay the Sh200 monthly rent where i lived with my younger sister, he remembers.On this day, Torez will be distributing clothes he has been collecting from different parts of the country to people living and working at the Dandora dumpsite.It s a bright Saturday morning and the sacks of clothes are loaded into a pickup before we start the journey to Dandora.We go through the busy Korogocho market where petty traders howl themselves hoarse, calling the passers-by to the wares on the road. Amid the din, we squeeze ourselves through and eventually get to Dandora police station where a crowd waits anxiously.A few speeches and we get to the business of the day. Loads of wears are put on the ground and despite being warned to make a queue, men, women and children scrabble for them. Each of them taking as much as their hands could carry, others carrying them in sacks while others wore them.Gladys Waitherero, a beneficiary says she is happy to have received clothes for her 4 children. I am very happy, atleast I will not have any budget for christmas wear, I will only toil for food and rent. Gladys has been working at the dumping site for 8 years.Almasi Dhaabu also a worker at the dumping site appreciated the clothes. I have just changed to my new wear and I am very excited. I also got some for my two children, he said.The project, dubbed Mngaro Mtaani which is a brainchild of Torez was started in March this year after having the urge of giving back to where he came from. I wanted to do something for my community, he says. Torez sorted his family wardrobe and picked what they were no longer using and took them to Korogocho, his place of birth. People appreciated and that s what prompted me to making it a long-term venture, he says.Torez would later register Mngaro Mtaani as a Community Based Organisation (CBO) and with the help of his friends they started collecting clothes from their neighbourhood. We do collections for a period of between 2 to 3 months after which we would identify a place where we would take them and distribute, he explained.They have since had three distributions in Korogocho, Mathare and most recent in Dandora where more than 400 people benefited.Torez notes that staying in a slum is never a choice adding that those people need love and being appreciated.He says sometimes its not their will to get into drugs but circumstances force them into the vices. When you work at the dumping site, he says, you graduate with age and experience. At 13, Torez started pick pocketing and eventually started stealing.At 15, he was into hard drugs. I smoked everything and anything. I had to steal to get money for the substances, he said.His turn around came at 20 when World Vision visited the area and started a project for orphaned children, which Torez joined. They were identifying orphaned children and taking them to school, he remembers.He was enrolled for a course in photography and mass communication. During my time at the dumping site, i used to admire journalists who would come and take our pictures and when an opportunity arose for a training, i picked it. Since he was not very fluent in english, Torez went straight to practicals. I learnt photography and videograph combined with rehabilitation, he says adding that he learnt english and now speaks it without effort.Torez would later be employed by the World Vision where he works in the communications office as a videographer. You will be shocked how willing Kenyans to help. With the help of our Facebook page, people have reached to us and we have managed to collect clothes from as far as Kisumu, Mombasa, Nakuru and most parts of the country. Apart form giving them clothes, Torez says they engage them on different issues like the disadvantages of taking drugs, they advise them against prostitution, stealing and all the vices that happen in the slums and streets.Their next gathering will be at the Globe Cinema on the December 24 where they will distribute clothes, shoes and food stuff to the street families in the area. We will be approaching the county council to provide us with water for the street children to get a clean bath and we are also hoping to give them a shave, he said.Contacts:0725 293797@MngaroMtaaniuaclothes@gmail.com