Hundreds of motorists and commuters in Mombasa were left stranded yesterday after the streets flooded following heavy rains in the county and its environs. Garbage was strewn all over the CBD.The downpour began in the early morning and soon many streets were flooded. The poor drainage system in Mombasa leads to massive flooding whenever it rains. Houses in Mtopanga, Mishomoroni, Bangla Pesa and other areas were flooded, too. Temperatures dropped sharply across the county and there were strong winds.Public service vehicle operators doubled fare prices to the discomfort of commuters. By the time of going to the press, no massive destruction had been reported.In September, the meteorological department warned that the Coast will be hit by heavy rains in the beginning of November. Kenya Meteorological Services acting director Peter Ambenje said light rains will precede the heavy downpour. The low rainfall would last about three months as a result of ocean warming, the weatherman saidAmbenje said the dry spell would increase, peak towards the end of the year and continue to the beginning of next year.The forecast showed Machakos, Kitui, Makueni and some counties at the Coast, such as Taita Taveta and Tana River, were likely to have rains in the first and second week of November.Western, Nyanza and parts of southern Central and the North Rift were to get near normal rainfall. The met department said rains will cease during the third and fourth week of December. In April, El Ni o rains caused damage and loss of lives.Early this month, a new report indicated that 2016 is likely to be the hottest year on record. The assessment released during COP22 by the World Meteorological Organization showed that global temperatures have been higher than the record-breaking temperatures in 2015.The National Drought Management Authority warned that Garissa, Kajiado, Kilifi, Kitui, Kwale, Makueni, Marsabit, Narok, Tana River, and Taita Taveta counties would experience a significant decline in food.