Even at my age, I still watch the cartoon characters Tom and Jerry. These two are forever in a world of hide and seek. They run through underground tunnels, ceiling boards and roofs looking for each other. Whoever is caught napping earns the wrath of his erstwhile partner in crime. I see Jubilee s two senior most partners in Tom and Jerry: They come out so nicely. But like in the Tom and Jerry game, one of them gets caught napping all the time but pretends nothing happened.Sometimes the pretense bursts at the seams when it can no longer be contained. That is why you see some foot soldiers such as Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago waxing lyrical about this Tom and Jerry debacle, now the Jubilee Party and its attendant MoU, are subjects of doubt and ridicule.Deputy President William Ruto s presidential ambitions for 2022 hang in the balance. Although he hasn t touched on the issue personally, his permanent wry smile, whenever he talks about how he and President Uhuru Kenyatta are working together so well, speaks volumes. Betrayal begins with trust, a sage said eons of years ago.This trust is eroded because President Uhuru is not the only one to decide whether the Central region will vote to a man for Ruto. The President only has one vote and maybe that of his wife, Margaret. He can easily convince the First Lady to vote for DP Ruto, but he will not hold a G3 rifle on the head of that voter from Kieni to elect Ruto. Mandago is doing Ruto s bidding for two reasons: To save his own dwindling popularity and second, to tell the other Jubilee side that they should respect the MoU, or else ...The Uasin Gishu governor has come out all guns blazing, telling the Mt Kenya side of Jubilee the Rift Valley is watching every step it is making as we head towards 2022 when Ruto intends to take his first stab at the presidency. But Ruto is not the only one who wants to run for President in 2022 in the vote-rich region.Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto have said, more than once, they will be squaring it out with others at that election. The DP s dreams will, therefore, be threatened or scuttled from two fronts: First, the Mt Kenya Mafia, who have brought in Peter Kenneth, and, second, his would-be political nemeses Rutto and Moi. Will he survive the onslaught? A meeting called by Mandago, I understand, is taking shape but it will not change the minds of the Central voters. Every betrayal contains a perfect moment a coin stamped heads or tails with salvation on the other side. The perfect moment is now. Those who have eyes and ears have seen and the shaping up of the succession politics in the House of Mumbi.The wealthy men in the Kikuyu nation have been holding midnight meetings on how to deflate Ruto s ambitions. They, however, smile with him during the day, telling him how they are waiting with bated breath for 2022 so that they can crown him the Sixth President. The Rift Valley Mafia have been outwitted by their Kikuyu counterparts because they are very slow to action, and they trust too much even when history is replete with betrayals by Kikuyu leaders.Jomo Kenyatta erected the first cornerstone of political betrayal when he shoved aside Jaramogi Odinga and Tom Mboya, who was murdered in cold blood in 1969. President Daniel Moi almost missed picking the baton from Kenyatta, thanks to Kikuyu oligarchs who believed they are the only ones who can lead. President Mwai Kibaki shredded the MoU he and Raila Odinga signed in 2002 and supported Uhuru. Kibaki again screwed another agreement this time with Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka.Those talking about saving UhuRuto s MoU might as well be addressing the birds.