Preparation for the openings two World Series leg&mdash;Dubai and Cape Town&mdash;were once again thrown in jeopardy after Shujaa players issued an ultimatum to the union to pay their outstanding bonuses before their next training session.The players held a meeting yesterday, where they resolved not resume training until their bonuses for the 2015-2016 season, totalling Sh20m are settled. Speaking after the meeting, skipper Andrew Amonde said the players feel short-changed and dismissed the Sh3 million offered to them by the union as slap in the face.&ldquo;The Sh3 million they are giving us are peanuts. We want Sh20 million to be paid to us by the time we have our next training sessions on Friday and Saturday,&rdquo; added Amonde.The players boycotted training yesterday morning, leaving head coach Innocent Simiyu in a delicate position with the team naming earlier slated for today at the RFUEA grounds.Kenya Rugby Union vice chairman, Thomas Opiyo said Kenya Airways contract for 2015-2016 season had no bonuses clause in it. &ldquo;From our understanding, the contract that Kenya Airways signed with the union only took care of salaries and air tickets and the issues of bonuses only came up when the team won the Singapore leg and the airline made a one-off bonus payment of Sh100,000 for each player for winning the leg,&rdquo; he asserted. Opiyo noted that Kenya Airways sponsorship from last season had been slashed from Sh80 million to Sh36m and the players were told to expect lower salaries.He added that they later discovered issues to do with bonuses last month after a consultative team meeting with players. &ldquo; Apparently, the players have been complaining about it since the Rio Olympics in August.&rdquo;Opiyo said 14 of the 20-man squad that was contracted last season, had bonus clauses inserted in their contracts and it must have been done by the KRU CEO Ronald Bukusi without the knowledge of the board. Opiyo said the way forward was to pay the players and former management a lump some of Sh3 million and prepare adequately.&ldquo;So I hope sanity will prevail and the players will accept the offer and we move on to Dubai and Cape Town,&rdquo; added Opiyo. The KRU supremo said Kenya risk being thrown out of the World Series should the problem escalate by next week. &ldquo;Worst case scenario is that if we don&rsquo;t send a team to Dubai and Cape Town, then we will be thrown out of the series because what excuse will we have of not sending a team,&rdquo; Opiyo explained.The Kenya Sevens players boycotted the unveiling of the jersey by betting firm SportPesa on Tuesday at a city hotel with only the national women&rsquo;s team showing up.Sources familiar with the story indicate that Simiyu has tried to talk to the players without much success. &ldquo;The head coach tried to talk to the players and told them they stand to be the biggest losers if they don&rsquo;t tone down, but they didn&rsquo;t listen to him,&rdquo; the source said.