BOMET Governor Isaac Rutto recent encounter with a flying teargas canister aimed at him by a youthful police officer in Silibwet in Bomet County may have affected him physically but it has helped rejuvenate his fight against political intolerance in the ruling coalition.For more than a year now, the establishment has been using Sotik MP Joyce Laboso to tame and neuter Rutto s growing popularity in Rift Valley but this approach is working anti-clockwise.Instead of the Bomet county boss s star dimming as the Jubliee harassment spike, Rutto is becoming an household name.This is not the intention of those behind his frustrations. They are inadvertently building the man s portfolio and now he is a political powerhouse to reckon with. Rutto is aware of the schemes bent on curtailing his political star next year and beyond but he is facing his opponents with such dignity they sometimes don t understand what to do with him.He knows who sends the dogs that bark at him day in day out in Bomet. That is why he doesn t attack the beasts; he goes for their master s jugular. On his much publicized return on Friday from South Africa where he had been referred to by his doctors to seek further medical treatment, Rutto was shooting from the hip. It is his nature especially when dealing with people devoid of political decorum and etiquette. His political gloves have been off for a while. He is now used to bare-knuckles fight with his number political friend-turned foe Deputy President William Ruto.The Governor has never tired from laying bare the emptiness of Jubilee s promises to the people of Rift Valley. This does not augur well for President Uhuru Kenyatta s leadership because whatever they promised in their 2013 manifesto has come to naught. The region that once upon a time was the bread basket of Kenya, is now a pale shadow of its former self thanks largely on Jubilee s lack of policies that can revive the region s economy. Jubilee had promised to revitalize the agricultural sector but all you see now are bare farms tottering on the brink of collapse due to fake fertilizer and seeds presided over by this administration that has become a constant source of pain.As Jubilee wallows in the miasma of selective amnesia on why actually they were voted for in the region four years ago, the residents are waking up from a long induced dream from UhuRuto who promised them heaven but instead delivered hell in shimmering china.The only flourishing industries in this myopic government are , nepotism and tribalism. Everything else smirks of bad leadership.The people are not blind. They are the ones feeling the heat when they go to hospitals and there are no medicines. They have to deal with inept systems that instead of rewarding them for their back-breaking work in the farm load them some more with burdens of lack of markets for their farm produce.Their milk is bought by a monopoly milk buying firm that does not allow for competition. The people are suffocating under myriad of burdens brought about by uncaring government and when a voice of reason comes along, the powers that be are quick to suffocate it too.But that will never work. As witnessed on Sunday in Bomet s Green Stadium, the pendulum is swinging the other way. The sling is ready for maximum aim and there is no going back.The people of Rift Valley have removed the specks and logs in their eyes. They now see far and what they see is good. Maybe Rutto and Baringo senator Gideon Moi are what the doctor just prescribed for the region. The people who thronged the stadium on Sunday and those who dined with him in Nairobi as soon as he flew in on Saturday, are not political charlatans playing ping pong games; they have been shopping around for an alternative, mature politician and their search has come to an end because they just found the man who will sort out their many problems by championing for more funds to the grassroots.