Mumias residents have complained that security officers are torturing them and using excessive force in operations to recover stolen firearms.Seven G3 rifles were stolen when thugs who raided Booker police post, near the entrance to Mumias Sugar Company, on Wednesday morning.More on this: Cop injured, seven G3 rifles stolen by thugs at Mumias police postA contingent of GSU, regular and Administration Police officers from across the region were deployed to various villages in Mumias, with instructions to recover the guns.They spent the better part of the day and night combing through Shitukhumi, Shibale and Mayoni estates, forcing traders to flee.Some members of the public were allegedly harassed and beaten up and property destroyed as the officers ransacked houses and business premises.A female victim told the Star that officers severely injured her in the private parts using their batons, during the search for the guns.Drivers and motorcycle riders who were found on Mumias-Bungoma road are also said to have been roughed up.Reports also indicated that many youths fled their homes for fear of being victimised by the security forces.A witness said the police post raid took place at around midnight while just one officer was on patrol.The attackers broke into the armory from where they stole the firearms and 180 bullets. They slashed the officer leaving him seriously injured before escaping.The officer was found unconscious the next morning and taken to St Mary s Hospital but he was later transferred to Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret.Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali and former ODM national youth leader Rashid Mohamed condemned the operation terming it "inhumane and barbaric".Washiali said it was wrong for the officers to go harass and beat innocent citizens "instead of owning up to their mistake". It is impossible that guns were stolen from Booker police post and hidden around Shibale, some 500m away. I think the officers are not serious in efforts to recover the guns, he said.The MP recommended thorough investigations, carried out humanely, for members of the public to feel safe enough to help. They should use civilised methods. Going around beating up innocent villagers will lead to a rebellion by citizens who might have information," he said.Washiali and Rashid also questioned the presence of just one officer at the post at the time of the raid. The ratio of guns to police officers at the station is questionable. That is where the investigation should start, said Rashid.He asked police to expand the operation but expressed fear that the raid may have been an inside job. Let police officers come out clearly and tell us why a whole police post was manned by one officer. We shall not take this lightly because our lives are now in danger due to the carelessness of security agents, he added.