THERE is interesting information doing the rounds on social media and it s about some of the people shortlisted for the position of IEBC chairperson. There are claims that Margaret Shava (pictured) is a niece of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Nominated Senator Beth Mugo and is married in Western. They claim that because she is very close to the Kenyattas, she may not be a fair referee next year. The information also claims that David Mereka, who has been shortlisted for the same position, was very close to retired President Daniel Moi and once sued the LSK for faulting then ruling party Kanu.===So, who among Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko, Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru, Nominated MP Johnson Sakaja and former Starehe MP Margaret Wanjiru is ready to drop their Nairobi governor bid in favour of others? Corridors has it that the race is turning into a money affair, and those who are not monied enough to negotiate the city slums are said to be jittery. According to insiders within the Nairobi Jubilee campaign team, every aspirant s bank balance or slush fund will be one of the determining factors before JP can agree on the final lineup.===OPERATIONS have been affected in various police divisions following nonpayment of operational funds. For instance, officers claim there is no money to pay food suppliers for meals for suspects held in the cells, buy fuel and transport prisoners to the courts, repair police cars and other logistics. Division commanders are worried that if the situation continues, it will paralyse their work and they may be forced to release some suspects in their custody, lest they starve. How will we feed those in our custody? asked one officer. The money is supposed to be released by Police Headquarters and those responsible are asked to act with speed.===A major war is brewing between hawkers and shop owners behind Kencom House in Nairobi. Reason? The hawkers have been allowed to put up tent stalls to sell their wares on the parking lot adjacent to Moi Avenue, but Corridors has learnt that a cartel working with a senior City Hall official has gone ahead to and irregularly taken over the parking spaces between Tumaini House and Uchumi House. The earlier agreement, said to have been entered into between City Hall and the traders, was that they would pay the county Sh350 each, Sh50 more than the official daily parking fee. The hawkers behind Kencom have irregularly erected their tents not only in parking areas but also walkways. Shop owners are now urging Governor Evans Kidero to intervene and order a probe.