Ministry of Health internal auditor Bernard Muchere yesterday appeared to backtrack on his interim audit report saying Sh5.3 billion could not be accounted for.He said he would need to conduct a forensic audit to be certain. But Mucheree did say there was noncompliance with procurement and public finance laws.Last Tuesday he stuck by his guns before Parliament and affirmed that figure of Sh5.3 billion. That figure was contained in his interim audit report leaked to the media three weeks ago.Read: Pressure for PS Muraguri to resign as Health CS declares no money lostThe revelation of missing billions created an uproar, especially since it appeared to involve money intended for free maternity care and food for HIV-Aids patients. The President s sister and cousin are on boards of companies that got preference in Health tendering because they are comprised of women.Health CS Cleopa Mailu said Sh5.3 billion is greatly exaggerated, no money is missing but his ministry is scrutinising Sh3.2 billion.Yesterday, Muchere told the Senate s Health Committee the ministry violated Procurement Laws and the Public Finance Management Act, which may have resulted in massive theft of taxpayers money. There was non-compliance to the law. It is difficult for me to say the money were lost unless I do a forensic audit. The law has not been complied with and therefore I cannot tell if the money was lost or not, Muchere told the committee chaired by Migori Senator Wilfred Machage.In a final audit report he presented before the committee, he said he only dwelt in four areas supplementary estimates, over-expenditure, misapplication of funds and pending bills.The Supplementary Estimates are said not to have met the requirements of the Constitution and the PFM Act and its regulations. Muchere stood his ground, saying the estimates had not provided a budget line.He said there already existed budgetary allocations provision on food supplements, which were to be financed under the Global Funds.Muchere also said the non- residential buildings had budgetary allocations but the distinction was made figuratively under the programme although the account description was the same . In this regard, the criteria on unforeseen and unavoidable may not have been met in the supplementary budgets as provided under the regulations, he said.The Health ministry said the Supplementary estimates for 2015-16 had increased budget allocation of Sh515.8 million in the recurrent vote National Aids Control Programme, meant for food and rations and Sh400 million meant for curative and rehabilitative health services at Sh350 million and Sh50 million, respectively. The allocation of the additional funds amounting to Sh515.8 million was to augment the funding from Global Funds and HIV-Aids, which targets more than 750,000 people who use nutritional foods as medical prescription, the ministry said.It goes on, The funds were requested for the Ministry and granted by the National Treasury. The supplementary estimates were presented to the National Assembly which approved the appropriation Act as required by the constitution and PFMF Act. Muchere said the supplementary estimates were not attached. They could have given information on whether requests complied with the provisions of section 40 of the PFM Regulations.IRREGULAR BANK PAYMENTConcerning payment of Sh265.8 million to Cooperative Bank allegedly meant for opening a Letter of Credit to vendors to supply food supplements, Muchere says there were no regulations in the PFM Act 2012 and the PFM Regulations 2015 providing use of letters of credit as a mode of payment.the ministry argues letters of credit are standard practice of payment.