There is an old adage that says, If you can t beat them, join them . This has never been clearer in Kenya than with the events in the past couple of months. With what seems to have been great progress in the country, everyone appears attracted to joining the Jubilee Party.This is even more so in the Central region where some former presidential candidates have endorsed the reelection of President Uhuru Kenyatta. It started with former Subukia MP Koigi Wamwere, then former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth and the latest being former Justice minister Martha Karua. There was the dissolution and merger of 12 political parties in September to form the Jubilee Party. The Jubilee Party is not only a reelection vehicle for President Uhuru but also a movement of people who believe in his leadership and that of Deputy President William Ruto.Karua and Kenneth have realised that Uhuru is the best bet for Kenya. Like them, most Kenyans have realised the Jubilee administration has done a lot for Kenya something the opposition is not willing to admit. Kenyans appreciate this and it explains why many of those who did not vote for UhuRuto in 2013 are changing their minds. What is preventing more from crossing over to the Jubilee side is the propaganda and lies being spread against the President and his government. Many are yet to critically and objectively analyse the diverse development projects his administration has initiated.There is a lot more to say about the Jubilee government. One of these is the standard gauge railway, which is nearing completion. Besides reducing travel time for both passengers and cargo from Mombasa and back, the SGR is set to create more jobs and develop the areas it passes through and around railway stations. Medical equipment is being installed in various county referral hospitals to improve healthcare services. Security has been enhanced because of the government s investment in vehicles and equipment for the police and the military. In education, the digital learning programme has already kicked off across the country. Additionally, the government has abolished national examination fees at both class eight and form four levels. For instance, the government paid examination fees for all the 1.5 million students sitting their exams this year.To support devolution, the national government has released more than Sh1 trillion to the counties in the last three years. In addition, the Jubilee administration has been working with the governors to improve other services such as health and the provision of clean water. The Jubilee administration has respected the transition between governments and this is why we have seen roads initiated by the previous governments being completed. One such road is the Turbi-Moyale road which has opened up the northern frontier, where a journey that used to take three days now takes five hours. Uhuru s administration has helped open up previously inaccessible regions of this country by building good roads that have enabled goods and services to move faster across the country.Electricity connectivity has increased since Jubilee came to power. Now, 5.2 million Kenyans have been connected to power compared to 2.3 million in 2013. There is also increased production of electricity in the country, making power more reliable and available for both domestic and industrial users. This would not have been possible if someone who is looking at developing the country to prosperity did not lead the country. President Uhuru is dedicated to creating opportunities for every Kenyan.