The Kenya Revenue Authority has dismissed claims by a section of importers that it has increased import duty at the Port of Mombasa. KRA commissioner for customs and border control Julius Musyoki yesterday said the taxman has only reviewed its cargo valuation process for imported goods, as it seeks to curb tax cheats who has denied the authority revenue. Musyoki said importers have manipulated KRA systems which has led to an increase in undervaluation, mis-declaration and concealment of imported goods, including falsification of importation documents. It is important to note that Kenya Revenue Authority has no mandate to increase duty as this is done through consultative budget process, which is approved by the council of ministers of finance under the East Africa Community, Musyoki said. Importers, through the Kenya International Freight and Warehousing Association said on October 31, that KRA increased taxes for all imports two months ago without consulting stakeholders. For example, initially someone was paying $US200 (about Sh20,000) for one tonne of general cargo, the amount has been raised to $US580 (about Sh58,000) per tonne, Kifwa secretary general Bernard Simiyu told journalists in Mombasa. Most affected cargo, Simiyu said included imported food, tyres and household goods. Musyoki yesterday said KRA has shifted from the old Kenya Revenue Authority valuation system which was being manipulated, a move that has led to intervention of concealed and undervalued goods.He said in recent past, milk powder was declared as gypsum boards, while cases of mis-declarition of luxury vehicles with the intention of tax evasion have been on the rise. The increased cost is paid by those who have mis-declared cargo or undervalued their consignments, Musyoki said. KRA clears about 25,000 containers a month at the Port of Mombasa . Methods used include the Pre-Verification of Cargo at the point of origin, introduced on December 1, 2015.The new system of evaluation includes the use of transaction value, valuation using identical goods and transaction value of similar goods.