 Never underestimate the power of stupid people in large groups. A friend in the UK sent me this quote the day after Hillary Clinton s stunning loss to Donald Trump in the U.S. elections.A white standup comedian, George Carlin ( 1937-2008 ) from New York said so. But another white friend in her 60s, who voted for Clinton in the same state, wrote to me a note that, typical of New Yorkers, was as subtle as a train wreck. Look, too often people of colour [she meant blacks] protect white people from themselves. Last night they just couldn t do it because Trump got the angry white person to actually vote. Let s just call it like it is, [it was] the power of stupid white people! she said. There, you have it.Did the United States last week elect a terrible President because stupid voters ran all the good guys out of town? Well, what else could explain why the painstakingly planned campaign of the experienced Clinton lost to the no-rules, I-don t-care campaign of her opponent, the bombastic billionaire with zero political experience, Trump? After the votes were counted, the guy who lost the popular vote was declared the winner. Well, that s because of the madness (or is it wisdom?) of the US Constitution.The rule of the game here is that people don t actually vote for a President. They vote to tell some 538 members of the Electoral College whom they want to be President.The number 538 mirrors the sum of all 535 members of Congress plus three electors allocated for the District of Columbia, a tiny special federal district that hosts the nation s capital and does not elect a representative to Congress. Then, in the first week of this December, each state will write to the US Senate, formally telling Washington which candidate their electors want to be President. The candidate to first reach 270 votes, the majority threshold in the Electoral College, becomes president.For illustration, take Kenya.Let us assume that our Constitution allocated each county a number of presidential electors. The sum of these privileged electors, decided by political party officials, should total 416, to mirror the sum of our MPs and senators. (Yes, you can fit Kenya into Texas and still leave room to fit half of Uganda. But while Texas where I voted has 36 electoral districts or constituencies, Kenya has 290. Add our 47 elected senators, Woman reps, nominated MPs and senators, special groups, and we reach 416 in Parliament.)Now let us say we had two major presidential candidates, James ole Kiyiapi and Mohammed Abduba Dida. Say the Constitution allocated three Electoral College votes to Kajiado county, where I will vote in 2017. Regardless of whether 300,000 of us show up to vote in Kajiado, all our votes would be to decide whom between Kiyiapi and Dida gets our three Kajiado electors. The first candidate to lay claim on 209 electors, the majority threshold in the country, would be declared President.This is how a presidential election is decided in America s 50 states, albeit with minor variations in Maine and Nebraska. It sounds like crooked democracy, right? Well, the framers of the US Constitution did not want uninformed people electing the President of the United States. But this year, a mad man showed up. And all hell broke loose. An unprecedented surge of so-called uninformed voters, mostly rural people who don t usually vote, suddenly came out of the woodwork. And the mad man got enough electors. Now the dust has settled. Anti-Trump protesters have had their day in the streets. The reputations of pundits, the oracles on television and radio, are tattered. Ostriches have taken their heads out of the sand. Now we can start with the questions.What the hell happened? What brought on the surge of uninformed voters? The list will fill books. Oh, Hillary Clinton was damaged goods from the start. Oh, she is like our Raila Odinga who has worked long and hard for his country, whose relentless courage through the decades helped bend Kenya s arch of history towards justice, inclusion and open governance, but whom large swathes of the country either love or hate in equal measure.Oh, Clinton was no match in personal charisma, especially coming after the inspirational orator and effective mobiliser President Barack Obama, who connects effortlessly with even people who disagree with him. Oh, Clinton just had endless bad luck. Russia and WikiLeaks kept leaking email secrets of her campaign strategy and her issues to the opponent. A day after the elections, Russian diplomats astonishingly admitted on record that Vladimir Putin s administration was actually in contact with Trump s campaign, MSNBC reported. Or oh, a random laptop belonging to a raving sex-scandals addict called Anthony Weiner from New York, whose estranged wife worked for Clinton, screwed everything. The FBI discovered, too close to Election Day, over half-a-million emails associated with Clinton, prompting a fresh look into how the former secretary of state handled official government emails. None of this matters now. The answer is in the data on who came to vote. The United States with all of its 320 million citizens is a data-driven country. Government and private research data knows where you live, where you like to shop, what airline you like to fly, what TV channels you like to watch, when you watch them, how often you change jobs, etcetera.Really? Oh yeah. They don t spy on you it s illegal but the Internet-connected gadgets you use, the discount shopping cards for which you apply, the cameras used to control traffic that read your number plate as you drive home, the ATM machine that knows your biographical info, all leave a long trail of who you are and what you like to do. Based on what you ve done in the past, computer simulations can predict how you are likely to act in the future, who will likely move to your neighbourhood, where your children will likely go to school, what hospital you re likely to go to, heck, even when you re likely to die.On the good side, all of this data helps the government to project people s movements for 10, 20 years and, hence, services to you. On the bad side, Uncle Sam is always watching. Given this amount of data, experts know if or how you re likely to vote. Campaigns design strategies to raise money from you, and to execute a massive get-out-the-vote drive on D-Day. Up till the last day, data analysis and poll of polls, an average of all polls, consistently showed that Clinton would win by a landslide.Then Trump s voters showed up.They were mostly from the Rust Belt states, the region cutting through the upper northeastern USA, the Great Lakes and the Midwest states, where economic decline, population loss, and the once-humming industrial sector have left in its wake urban decay.In their days, a high school diploma was sufficient to get you job security for life. Not anymore. These were people who had had it. They knew pain. And for at least six election cycles, elite America ignored their pain. Trump told them he would make America great again, and they took this to mean he would make their pain go away. Nothing else mattered. They wanted change, regardless of what that change looked like. So they brought a hand-grenade to Washington, Trump.Last week, a former steel mill worker in the state of Ohio who said he voted for Trump told National Public Radio that he was laid off for years after their plant closed, because Chinese steel was now cheaper in America. He couldn t get it. We invented steel (sic), why is it over there? he said. Another retiree was asked if he cared about trade wars, or the reality of living in a world that s now a village. Economists say that to stay relevant in the new order, people should focus on stuff at which they excel. Stick to your competitive advantage. If you re Germany or Japan, make cars; don t grow nduma.If you make great rat poison, become the best damn maker of rat position, we re now told. While you re at it, make it so your prices are competitive, more affordable than the next alternative. If this means having machines replace your workers, so be it. The world will clear bushes on the way to your house, to buy your rat poison. But to this retiree in Ohio, it was all very simple. Oh we don t care about trade wars, he said, we gotta take care of ourselves, that s what s important. How do you argue with that? This is the working class America for whose pain Trump became a very precise and effective vehicle.Wait. The pain of the uninformed voter is not unique to America. Every country has its own. But the US election revealed something extraordinary. Trump single-handedly succeeded in depressing the vote of the informed middle-class, while simultaneously ramping up the vote of the people that his opponent regrettably called, a basket of deplorables. On the other hand, thanks to quirks in the Electoral College system, this election did a tailspin on democracy. Trump, who won the Electoral College majority, did not only get fewer votes than Clinton; he got fewer votes than Mitt Romney, who lost to Obama in 2012. Read that again. Trump got fewer votes than the last loser. My New Yorker friend put it this way: What s wrong with democracy when the person who came second wins? As it turned out, exit polls showed that 60 per cent of those who voted for Trump actually didn t like him. Just think about that for a minute. You don t like a guy, but you still vote for him, anyway. Hell, why?Well, consider what I heard on the radio a week before elections. An evangelical pastor was preaching Jesus. He asked his audience to think what Jesus would do. He concluded that in this election, Christians might have to hold their noses and vote for the candidate whose identity he left no doubt about, Trump. And now a man that people held their noses to vote for will become the 45th President of the US. An ominous oracle from 1920 could come true in our time. As democracy is perfected, the office of president represents, more and more closely, the inner soul of the people, wrote Henry L Mencken, a German-American journalist and satirist. On some great and glorious day, the plain folks of the land will reach their heart s desire at last and the White House will be occupied by a downright fool and a complete narcissistic moron. Except Donald Trump is not a moron. If anything, he could be a true, honest-to-God genius. Okay, an evil genius.