More than 50 resolutions out of the hundreds passed in the 11th Parliament have been implemented by the executive.Implementation committee chairperson Soipan Tuya said adopted committee reports, legislation, and petitions from MPs and the public means the House is no longer a talk-shop. Our duty is to ensure the executive acts on the resolutions of the House for the good of the people, Tuya, who is Narok county woman representative, said in her team's progress report.The committee serves as the link between the National Assembly and the Executive. Its key role, according to standing orders, is to follow up on the implementation status of resolutions adopted by the House and appraise members. It must be noted that these resolutions act as triggers to get the Executive wing of the government to act, said Tuya.Among implemented resolutions was the Sh600 million allocation in this year's budget for the operationalisation of the Kenya Police Reservist in arid and semi- arid lands, among them Turkana and West Pokot. The allocation is expected to review the terms and conditions for KPR officers, who play a key complimentary role to the mainstream security system. The committee also ensured the allocation of Sh80 million to the livestock insurance policy in 2014/15, Sh300 million for 2015/16 and Sh500 million for the current financial year. In January, payouts were made in Wajir with 275 farmers from Diff and Butte divisions benefiting to the tune of Sh3.5 million. Zero-rating of animal feeds to enable farmers enjoy higher returns on their investments, as part of reviewing farm gate milk prices, is contained in the current financial year's budget. Others include the resolution on the National Disaster Management Authority, for which a draft bill has been prepared by the line ministry to establish the body.Huduma centres and mobile registration units were set up to facilitate the issuance of identity cards to all eligible Kenyans. The National Youth Council is also fully operational following the release of Sh34.2 million and the reduction on the National Hospital Insurance Fund penalty, from 500 per cent to 25 per cent surcharged for late payments. Tuya said the NHIF has already effected the reduction administratively as it awaits the proposed amendments to the NHIF Act.