I am writing this on Wednesday, November 9, 2016. Twenty seven years ago on this very day, the Berlin Wall came down, the physical breaching of an ideological divide that had split the world for five decades. That night, euphoric crowds began to chip away parts of the Wall if you watch videos from that time, people look delirious with joy, gleefully hacking the thick concrete wall, almost clumsy in pure ecstasy. Today, I woke up to the news that Donald Trump was projected to become the 45th president of the United States. The CNN analyst announcing this looked like someone had punched him in the stomach; he was actually ghostly white under those studio lights. By 11am, it was confirmed, he had clinched it with 288 electoral college votes over Hillary Clinton s 215. Astonishing can t even begin to describe it. Donald Trump is a man who has pledged to build a wall on the US-Mexico border and force Mexico to pay for it, declared president-elect on the very day the Berlin Wall came down all those years ago. Last week, this column argued that there is nothing in history to suggest that a new generation necessarily represent progressive change, or that young people are by default more inclusive and broad-minded. If anything, data from 16 countries in Africa published by Afrobarometer shows that civic engagement among young people has been on the decline over the past decade and a half. Young Africans (age 18-35) saying they were very or somewhat interested in public affairs has declined significantly (from 81% in 2002/2003 to 58% in 2014/2015). Nearly two-thirds of respondents in the earlier survey said they had attended a community meeting in the past year; it was down to 51% last year. Many people will be reading the tea leaves for a long time in the next few weeks, months and years, trying to figure out how in the world Donald Trump happened. But another story from history might help credits to the inimitable Malcolm Gladwell for his excellent analysis of this phenomenon on his podcast Revisionist History. All ten episodes are available online. This is from the first episode of the series, titled The Lady Vanishes . Gladwell goes back to mid-19th century England, where a painting by an unknown artist took the art world by storm. It was called Roll Call, a battleground scene. Until then, paintings of wars and military men always depicted decorated troops in perfect formation, gallant and full of valour. But this was different. The scene was the morning after a battle; the soldiers look battered and bruised, some struggling to help each other up to answer the roll call. DIGNIFIED It was graphic and harrowing, yet somehow dignified. And it was all the rage, exhibited in the most prestigious part of the gallery, almost a shoo-in that the painter would be admitted into the Royal Academy of Arts, perhaps today s equivalent of winning an Oscar. But then it emerged, to everyone s surprise, that the painter was a woman one Elizabeth Thompson, still in her twenties. In a world totally dominated by men, culturally, politically and otherwise, Thompson was an aberration. Yet her talent was undeniable, and her admittance to the Royal Academy the owners of the art world at the time was put to a vote. She lost by just two votes, but it looked like it would be the start of a brave new world. Everyone was sure she would be voted in the following year. Guess what happened next. You would think that despite having lost, Thompson s great showing would open the doors to more female painters and artists. It didn t. In fact, the Royal Academy forty aloof, dictatorial white men quickly changed the regulations to make it impossible for another woman to even come close to being admitted into the Academy. It wouldn t be until the 1930s, more than half a century later, that the first woman would be admitted into the Academy. What happened? Gladwell calls it moral licensing: the strange way that psychologically, when we do something good, positive or progressive, we then allow ourselves to then do something bad and narrow-minded. You ve seen it at the gym; a tough workout makes us feel like we have earned permission to eat chips and cake right after. The Royal Academy allowed a woman s painting to be exhibited in the most prestigious part of the gallery, and having soothed their conscience that they were, in fact, quite revolutionary, they then closed the door to women for decades afterward. OUTSIDER In the words of Gladwell, she was an outsider whose success served not to alleviate discrimination, but to perpetuate it. You know where I am going with this. America voted a black man as president in 2008, and many quietly congratulated themselves for years afterward that they had done such a great and wonderful thing. The same country then subconsciously gives itself permission to then go a dark place, quite literally without any sense of internal conflict about it. We ve seen it in Kenya too: the euphoric victory of NARC in 2002 was Kenya s most democratic, inclusive, positive and cheerful moment. We had done the impossible! And just five years later, the country was at its ugliest. An Obama creates an anti-Obama; this is where Donald Trump, as a historical phenomenon, comes from. And it is probably why the government of Uhuru Kenyatta Kenya s youngest, coolest, most digital-savvy president would precisely be the one mired in scandal after scandal against the young people and children of this country, from the National Youth Service (NYS) to the current one at the Ministry of Health. I fear that we haven t seen the worst of it. Christine Mungai is a writer, journalist and executive editor of Africa data visualiser and explainer site Africapedia.com