If you had a reasonably well-adjusted childhood, one thing that you never lacked was affirmation.Everything you did was applauded. A neighbourhood carnival was thrown in response to every little milestone. If you fed yourself and finished your lunch any time before sunset, your family would gather, resplendent in sisal skirts, and compose songs in your honour. Your little, childlike ego received more than enough nourishment.Then one day, it stopped.Where there was praise, there was silence, and in some cases, criticism. Your parents kept pushing you, calling it building character . Your classmates were less kind. What was once well-nourished was now anything but. As you grew up, you began to desperately look for other sources of affirmation.Then God gave us the genius of Mark Zuckerberg. When Facebook entered the world stage, millions of starved egos around the world sat up and took notice. An unprecedented opportunity had presented itself. You no longer needed a broadcasting licence to reach others. All you needed was a cell phone and a provider that wasn t actively trying to bankrupt you.Thus, the age of the social media narcissist began. We all know one SMN. And if you don t know any, chances are that you are one. Sorry. These fascinating creatures thrive in the warm sunshine of the attention of others. They bask in it, revel in it. They dance around your Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Snapchat newsfeeds, documenting every moment of their existence. No detail, not even the most mundane, will be left out. You will be treated to high definition photographs of every morsel of food that crosses their lips. Every morning, the results of a high fashion photoshoot in which they share their outfit of the day (I hear it s called the OOTD) will flood your screen. They can never go on holiday, attend a swanky event, or eat at a fancy restaurant without telling you about it. So many images of their home will be shared that, if invited, you would know where the spoons and glasses are without asking. And if the good Lord has seen it fit to shine His countenance upon them and bless them with a romantic relationship, you will be treated to a front-row seat to the most epic love story of modern times. Their love transcends time and space. No one has ever loved like they do, and no one ever will. The saccharine displays of affection will be enough to send your blood sugar levels through the roof.Why do they do this, you ask?Well, because this is the easiest source of validation. Their parents have long since stopped telling them what precious little snowflakes they are. However, a well-curated social media audience is more than able to fill this gap. This audience will gasp in delight at every well-lit selfie, be sufficiently awestruck at every photograph of their home, and swoon at every carefully posed scene of love. You see, SMNs know how to pick their audience. If you go for more than a month without liking or commenting on their pictures, out you go, to make space for a more pliable recipient.How should one handle these SMNs? Simple. Because they crave the attention with a childlike ferocity, give it to them. After all, they are the most harmless citizens of the social media kingdom. I d rather have 200 narcissists than one tribalist bigot spewing hate. I will endure thousands of photos of happy kissing couple with joy. Trust me.