Education CS Fred Matiang i yesterday criticised politicians who wanted to provide food bearing their photos and slogans to KPCE exam candidates in Mombasa. He said the government will not allow petty politics in schools.Matiang i supported Coast Regional coordinator Nelson Marwa s directive to bar politicians from providing food to KCPE exam candidates. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho wanted to distribute food in packages bearing his portrait and a picture of cheering children.The containers bore the words Hassan Joho wishes you the best in your annual exams, baba ni kulea 001 .Matiang i said it is unfortunate leaders are taking politics to schoolchildren for selfish interests. He spoke in Kwale as he toured schools.He said primary and secondary school education is a national and not a county function. If everyone goes to our schools and prints T-shirts and portraits, how would the schools look? Matiang i asked.He said the government is not banning politicians from feeding children, but they are asking simple common sense questions . You take bread and put your portrait on it and bring it to the children, can t we be satisfied if your portrait is not there? We will not allow it to happen now or in the future, Matiang i said.The CS said the government will not allow anarchy in such issues. You saw what they did during the mock exams. Governors put their portraits on exam papers. I have never seen such madness in my life. Others bought school buses and put pictures of themselves on them, he said. Imagine walking into a school and you find a face of governor in one wall and a face of another pretender in a second wall. Matiang i said those who want to provide food for schools must consult the deputy county education directors and government officials. What I expect to see in a school is a President s portrait, period, he said.He said Muslim and Christian organisations support schools, but they never blow their own trumpets. The Catholic Church supports children in many ways and they don t go around arguing with the county, regional commissioners, the Education CS and telling everyone off, Matiang i said.On Monday, Marwa barred politicians from providing food to KCPE candidates. Schools in Mombasa obeyed the directive and turned down the food.