Kisumu Senator Anyang&rsquo; Nyong&rsquo;o, the architect of the anti-harambee law, has eaten humble pie and now participates in public fundraisers he unsuccessfully sought to regulate.He has been a fierce critic of public fundraising. In the past two months, Nyong&rsquo;o (pictured) has been actively involved in high-profile events to raise money for groups.He drafted and sponsored the Public Fundraising Bill 2014, a proposed law with far-reaching implications aimed at providing a legal framework for harambees.The bill was passed by the Senate but shot down by the National Assembly on October 5, sending it to the House Joint Mediation Committee to iron out contentious clauses.A controversial clause compelling organisers to apply for a licence before conducting a fundraiser was cited as the reason for its rejection.Nyong&rsquo;o is in the running for Kisumu governor. On Sunday, Nyong&rsquo;o was at Nyakoko Primary School in Miwani for a fundraiser for needy students. &ldquo;Together we can achieve more and change our county for the better,&rdquo; he posted on his official Facebook page.On November 11, Nyong&rsquo;o met boda boda riders in Kisumu Central, before heading to Nyakach for a fundraiser for Anding&rsquo;o Opanga Secondary School.&ldquo;Together we can reach any height and achieve every goal we set. We appreciate everyone who turned up,&rdquo; Nyong&rsquo;o said in his post after the events.On October 30, he presided over a fundraising to purchase a mini bus for Obwolo Motocycle Sacco in Kajulu Ward, Kisumu East subcounty.&ldquo;It&rsquo;s one of the most organised boda boda saccos in the county. We believe their hard work, determination and ambitions should be supported and encouraged. We thank everyone who turned up to make it a success,&rdquo; Nyong&rsquo;o said.Nyong&rsquo;o will square off with incumbent Jack Ranguma and hopefuls Asaka Nyangara, Hezron Mc&rsquo;Obewa and Deputy Governor Ruth Odinga. All are seeking the ODM ticket. Others are David Wayiera, Gordon Okumu and James Obondi. Former aspirant Billy Kariaga pulled out of the race and is seeking to be Ranguma&rsquo;s running mate.Nyong&rsquo;o has been crisscrossing the county to popularise his candidacy. In August, he received the backing of some elders.