Harambee Starlets launch their 2016 Africa women&rsquo;s Cup of Nations campaign against Ghana tomorrow (9pm Kenyan time) at the Stade Municipal De Limbe in Cameroon.The Kenya side, who are debuting in the event, have been drawn in Pool &lsquo;B&rsquo; and will tackle Mali (November 23) and then face-off with title holders Nigeria (November 26) in their preliminary matches.The biennial event kicks off today, with host Cameroon playing Egypt in one of the Pool &lsquo;A&rsquo; matches at the Stade Ahmadou Ahidjo, Yaounde before South Africa battle Zimbabwe in second match.On paper, Kenya go into tomorrow&rsquo;s match as underdogs despite having a good build-up. Kenya participated in the COTIF tournament in Spain before featuring in the Cecafa show in Uganda, where they finished second behind Tanzania.The side, coached by David Ouma, also toured Morocco for a couple of friendly matches with top clubs. They succumbed to visiting Cameroon 1-0 and beat Egypt with a similar margin in international friendly matches in Nairobi. Starlets went on to lose 2-1 in a return match with Cameroon away. On the flip side, Ghana called off international friendlies against Cote d&rsquo;Ivoire and South Africa, citing financial reasons.The Black Queens have managed to play select sides in local friendlies but boast of a gold medal they picked during the All Africa Games last September coupled with their regular participation in the competition. Kenya coach Ouma said they have prepared well ahead of tomorrow&rsquo;s clash.&ldquo;We have had good preparation. Every team wants to begin the event with positive results and we are not any different. And so we intend to put our best foot forward in the match and hope that the end results will go our way,&rdquo; he said. His opposite number Yusif Basigi was quoted by peacefmonline.com, saying he will be targeting a semi-final slot.&ldquo;We are trying to discard all factors that can affect our performance and results and aim at our target. I don&rsquo;t want to put unnecessary pressure on the players but we are definitely aiming at qualifying to the semi-finals,&rdquo; said Basigi.