My flashback has taken me to the time I interfered in Eric s relationship and found out that his girlfriend had terminated a pregnancy without his consent. I covered my tracks and deleted the messages I had sent her on his phone, except the last one she had sent in response to my goading, saying: I m so glad that I terminated that pregnancy. Rot in hell. Of course she had no way of knowing that I was on the other end of the line. It was Eric s phone after all. You re pregnant? Eric now asks. I ve used this piece of information to get out of the situation I m currently in, knowing how he feels about babies. I m not sure if that goes for all babies, or just his. I am, I respond.He breaks into a grin. That s wonderful. That idiot in there is the father? he asks.I nod again. He seems happy. This guy is baffling. Why are you drinking? he suddenly asks, changing tack. Whh-a-a-t? I ask mid-sip. It s just a little champagne. Alcohol can pass from your blood into the baby s blood stream. It can damage and affect the growth of the baby s cells. Brain and spinal cord cells are at the highest risk, he says, taking the glass from my hand.He signals the waiter for the bill. On top of being a pilot, you re a doctor, too? I ask with a smile. It s hardly rocket science, he says. Look, if you fancy your kid having a small head, flat face and narrow eye openings, for instance, go right ahead. I laugh. You re right. I shouldn t be drinking. And neither should you. Are you flying today? I ask. He shakes his head. No. Amsterdam tomorrow, he says.The waiter brings the bill and he requests for a machine to run his card. I love to see you in uniform, I say, attempting to flirt. It s true. There s nothing sexier than a pilot in full apparel. The girls love it. It s a shame we can t go out drinking in that gear. It s a chick magnet, he responds with a grin. So What happens now? I ask, shifting gears. With us? He sighs deeply. I suggest you try and work things out with Frank. You obviously still have the hots for him and you re carrying his child, he responds. What did I expect? That he d embrace another man s child and me? A man he just caught me making out with? I like you, Samantha, but this is not the kind of situation I need to be in the middle of, he says. For the sake of your baby, try and work it out with him. The waiter returns with the machine and Frank runs his card, giving the guy a hefty tip for his troubles.Is this the end? Will I never see him again? Can I still call you sometime? I ask, feeling strangely bereft. We ll always have Paris he responds.I feel like I ve been punched in the stomach. That s one of the most memorable lines from the 1942 classic Casablanca. The main character says those words to his former lover in reference to their brief romance that was abruptly cut short by the Nazi invasion of France. When he speaks these words, he has accepted that they ll never be re-united but will always have that one memory. Eric knows Casablanca is one of my favourite movies and I ll therefore understand their meaning. It s over. We will never be re-united. All I can hang on to is a memory.He stands up and pecks me on the cheek. Here s looking at you, kid, he says softly.