Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko has withdrawn his support for Kiambu Governor William Kabogo's re-election, and opted for real estate mogul David Ngari alias Gakuyo.Sonko's change of mind comes barelymonths after he endorsed Kabogo for a second term. Gakuyo declared his bid for the top county seat last week. "I will work closely with Gakuyo until we see the outcome of the party primaries. I am backing him because he is my friend," Sonko said on Sunday.He announced his change of plans at the launch of Gakuyo Foundation in Thika, where he represented President Uhuru Kenyatta.Sonko told Gakuyo not to fear his competitors as it is the people who will choose their next governor."Concentrate on talking to Kiambu people and explain your agenda to them. If you live well with them you will definitely become the next governor," he said."Do not fear the big names in the race. I also floored political giants in Makandara in 2010."He presented Uhuru's Sh1 million donation, Deputy President William Ruto Sh500,000 and his Sh300,000.Nominated senator Fatuma Dulo, who accompanied Sonko, assured Gakuyo that Jubilee Party will support his bid.Dullo urged the aspirant to sell his agenda across the county so as to garner residents support."Kiambu residents should consider electing a God-fearing person as their governor. When you elect a leader who fears and worshisp God, you bring development," she said.Kabogo roped in Sonko in August when the ground was judged as hostile towards his administration. Waititu had at the time expressed interest in the Kiambu governor seat.While at a political rally organised by Kabogo in Ruiru, Sonko called the Kabete MP a "political refugee" in Kiambu and promised to ensure Kabogo is re-elected."If Baba Yao is man enough, let him seek election in Nairobi and we shall show him dust. He should not mislead the people of Kiambu," the senator said."Please, do not allow refugees who were kicked out of Nairobi to bring their madness to Kiambu."Waititu vied for Nairobi governor in 2013 but lost to Governor Evans Kidero. Sonko will vie against several others for the Nairobi governor seat in 2017.Read: Sonko, Kabogo forge alliance, pledge to show Waititu dustAlso read: Waititu will beat Kabogo hands down in Kiambu governor race - pollGakuyo pledged to offer "transformative and collaborative leadership with strong emphasis on accountability and economic empowerment" for the people of Kiambu. He said that upon election in the August 8, 2017 polls, he will implement sound economic policies that will help transform the livelihoods of the residents.Gakuyo spoke of how he had tried to seek audience with Kabogo, for about six months, to discuss the county's problems but that this was in vain."I have tried several times to seek audience with the Governor but my attempts were futile. The last time I was at his office, I was told to write a note and say what I wanted to tell him," he said.Gakuyo's entry in the race for Kiambu governor is likely to change what had been shaped as a two-horse race between Kabogo and Waititu.Allies of the two politicians told the Star in confidence that Gakuyo s candidature will definitely be a game-changer in the county's political scene.