Veteran politician Jackson Kibor s second wife Josephine Jepkoech says she loves and respects her husband of 51 years and does not understand why the politician filed a divorce case against her. He is here in court and he knows very well that we have always lived happily. He is our husband and I don t know why he brought me to court, said Josephine, who was in the dock to testify in defence of their matrimony.She produced pictures of past family events in which Kibor was photographed with all his three wives and other family members.Kibor filed the divorce case last month to end the marriage with Josephine, 67. He accused her of desertion, cruelty and interfering with his ownership of 800 acres in Kipkabus, Uasin Gishu county. He told senior principal magistrate Charles Obulutsa on Friday that he has not spent time with Josephine for more than 30 years.Kibor asked the court to cancel their marriage certificate, which was issued in 1965.Read: Politician Jackson Kibor files divorce case to end 51-year marriagePolitician Jackson Kiprotich Kibor (2nd from left) during the hearing of the divirce case Photo/Mathews NdanyiYesterday, Kibor, who was in court, laughed heartily when Josephine showed the court one of the pictures they took after a family function. She said she has never committed adultery, cruelty or desertion against Kibor. The court can look at this picture in which we were very happy. We did not have any problem and you can even see he is happy here in court, said Josephine. She denied that she had ever chased Kibor from their Kipkabus home. It's not possible for me to chase my husband from is home. When he is away, I manage the farm for the family and when we got married he always told us to work hard so that we repay a loan which he had used to purchase the land, said Josephine.Her testimony was however cut shot when she produced handwritten notes done in Kalenjin dialect, which she claimed Kibor had written to her severally, giving her instructions on family matters. Your honour this letters are being produced for the first time and they have to be interpreted and authenticated to confirm that they were written by my client, Kibor s lawyer Waziri Omolo said.Josephine has indicated that she will produce four witnesses to defend her 51 year s marriage. Read: Kibor wife calls co-wife, 3 witnesses to save wedlockJosephine Chepkoech Kibor testifying in court yesterday Photo/Mathews Ndanyi In fact every Christmas we celebrate together at either of his homes and we usually take pictures in very happy moods, she said.Among the witnesses she will produce is Kibor s third wife Naomi Cheptoo, who also argues that they have been happily married to Kibor.Josephine said although Kibor leaves with his fourth wife Yunita, he frequently visits their home in Kipkabus. His first wife Mary is deceased.Josephine maintained she had no differences with the 82-year-old politician to warrant the divorce. Kibor had claimed that Josephine had been abandoning their home to visit her two children in Canada without his authority and that animals at home home had died due to lack of care when she travels. He is always aware whenever I travel and the farm is taken care of by his children in case I am away, she said.Josephine links the dispute between them to a demand by Kibor to be allowed to sell part of their land, which she rejected.When he testified last month, Kibor caused laughter in court when he said Josephine did not come with the land when they got married and it should not be her concern.Kibor has accused Josephine of imposing a caveat on the land to bar him from selling it.Kibor has told the court that he has not spent time with Josephine for 30 years and wants the court to cancel their marriage certificate issued in 1965. She is my wife, but I have not slept in the house I built for her for the last 30 years. She does not respect me and she has been abandoning the farm for long, causing the death of my livestock and chickens, Kibor said.