Two Wheel Drive title contenders Eric Bengi and Alex Lairang&rsquo;i have started putting final touches to their preparations ahead of this weekend&rsquo;s KCB Kitengelaa Rally.Bengi leads the series with 121 points ahead of Lairang&rsquo;i who trails him by a solitary point.Newcomer Sam Karangatha and his partner Edward Ndukui will be looking to secure their maiden Kenya National Rally Championship finish in the Subaru Leon.Bengi has been busy on last touch ups for his Toyota RunX car in readiness for the weekend action.&ldquo;We are well prepared and hope to post good results in the upcoming Kitengela rally. We also take this opportunity to wish all the crews and teams good luck this weekend,&rdquo; said Bengi.Newcomer Karangatha believes KNRC has been a steep learning curve for him. &ldquo;Hopefully, the experience gained will help us going forward. Approach for the Kajiado sections will be to drive fast but cautious. We&rsquo;ll work to ensure our pace-notes are spot on,&rdquo; Karangatha said. Alex Lairang&rsquo;i who was the winner in Eldoret believes the championship has reached crucial stage with two rallies to spare.&ldquo;After a relatively trouble-free run in Eldoret, where we emerged the victors, the car came through intact with no major problems unlike in previous two rallies. Mechanically, it&rsquo;s sound and ready for the weekend rally as we spent the better part of Sunday testing it. We&rsquo;re looking forward to Kajiado. The game plan is the same, fast but sensible. The essence is to scoop maximum points in the Championship where we are currently lying second, a point behind the leader, Eric Bengi,&rdquo; Lairang&rsquo;i saidChampion Leonardo Varese is happy with his Toyota Corolla RSI 2which is an ex David Horsey car.&ldquo;In Kajiado we are just going to enjoy ourselves. For the last two seasons, I have had to deal with pressure going into last two rounds. It&rsquo;s nice for a change that the pressure is on others. Next season, we shall be all out to reclaim the title and go for a record 5th time with a new 2WD machine. Details will be released at a later date,&rdquo; Varese said.A total of 36 drivers have signed up for Kitengela Rally which is the penultimate round of the KNRC. The rally will be flagged off in Kitengela on Sunday morning with competitive action being centred in Kajiado.