Officials from the Luhya and the Kikuyu communities dominate top leadership positions in the public universities, a new report shows.Of the 30 public universities and constituent colleges, there are 22 Luyhas and 20 Kikuyus heading the institutions of higher learning.The Kikuyu have three vice chancellors, 14 deputy vice chancellors, one principal and two deputy principals. The Luyha have four vice chancellors, 12 deputy vice chancellors, one principal and five deputy principals.The Luo come third with 12 individuals from the community being at the helm of the institutions five vice chancellors, four deputy vice chancellors, one principal and two deputy principals.The Kalenjin are fourth, with 11 officials;one VC, eight DVCs and two deputy principals.The Meru and Kamba come fifth with nine officials each three VCs, four DVCs, one principal and one deputy principal each, while the Kisii come sixth with eight officials - one VC, five DVCs, one principal and one deputy principal.Least number of officialsThe Swahili community has four officials two VCs and two DVCs.The Teso have one vice chancellor and the Giriama, Digo, Maasai, Kuria, Suba and Taita communities each have one deputy vice chancellor. The Somali community has only one principal. Varsities becoming tribal enclaves?According to the report, which was tabled in the Senate last week, most of the universities and their constituent colleges are headed by individuals who hail from the areas where the institutions are situated.Senators raised concerns that the institutions of higher learning have become tribal enclaves. They urged the Education ministry to change the method of appointing leaders. From the list read, it is evident that by and large vice chancellors come from the areas where the universities are located and yet we are talking about them being national universities, Trans Nzoia Senator Henry Ndiema said.Samburu Senator Sammy Leshore said, From the statement, all the vice chancellors from Nyanza are Luos. All the vice chancellors from Central are Kikuyus. All the vice chancellors from Western are Luhyas and all the vice chancellors from Coast are Swahilis. Is he confirming that these are becoming tribal enclaves? Why are VCs not confirmed?West Pokot Senator John Lonyangapuo questioned why out of 30 VCs, 11 of them are in acting capacity. This is a major problem. How can we have a staggering 37 per cent of all our vice chancellors in acting capacity? Something is exceedingly wrong in that ministry. The minister and his team must ask themselves why people are in acting capacity, he said.Kirinyaga Senator Daniel Karaba, the Senate s Education committee chairman, said the disparity of 23 vice chancellors in 30 universities arose because some of the universities have just been chartered. Since the process of appointing vice chancellors is still going on, there is a disparity. The charters were issued last Friday, he told the House.Institution headsThe reports says the University of Nairobi is under the leadership of VC Peter Mbithi (Kamba) from Machakos county, while Moi University and Kenyatta University are led by acting VC Laban Ayiro (Luhya) and VC Paul Wainaina (Kikuyu), respectively.Egerton University is under the stewardship of Rose Mwonya a Luo from Siaya county; Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology is led by Mabel Imbuga, a Luhya from Vihiga county; while Maseno University is led by Julius Nyabundi a Luo from Siaya county.Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology, Dedan Kimathi University of Technology and Pwani University are led by Fred Otieno a Luo from Kakamega county, Ndirangu Kioni (Kikuyu), and Mohamed Rajab (Swahili), respectively.Technical University of Kenya is under the leadership of Francis Aduol (Luo), while Multimedia University of Kenya and University of Kabianga are led by Festus Kaberia (Meru) and Wilson Kipng eno (Kalenjin), respectively.Technical University of Mombasa, Chuka University and Kisii University are under the stewardship of Laila Abubakar (Swahili), Erastus Njoka (Meru) and John Akama (Kisii), respectively.