MIKE S CAMP, KIWAYU ISLANDImagine relaxing in your room while watching different birds flutter by, staying up late to watch the stars light up the night sky, or rolling over in the morning to catch the first hint of sunrise over the Indian ocean right from the comfort of your bed. Mike s Camp Kiwayu may well be one of Lamu Archipelago s best-kept secrets. The camp has about eight private sea-facing bandas suitable for honeymooners, families, friends or individuals. If you like, you can curl up with a good book (from the camp s little library) on a hammock, while feeling the ocean s breeze gently caress your skin, or have a glass of wine from your front porch while watching monkeys swing from tree to tree. No, they are not the cheeky types that will rummage through your items while you are out. Each banda is eco-friendly, all weaved and thatched from palm trees.The camp is powered by wind and solar energy and water is brought to the rooms daily from a well by donkeys. The shower, for instance, is simply a bucket with a shower head plugged at the bottom. This is hoistened up by rope and can be pulled down at any time for a refill. Heating is thereby only done by the sun! Chef Daniel s menu is vibrant and filled with a fresh array of fish and vegetables. You will savour tuna, crab, kingfish, wahoo and more, sometimes caught by the guests only a few hours before, and often prepared in a myriad of ways. You can also enjoy a variety of watersports from the island, seeing as its natural beauty has been preserved by the Kenya Wildlife Service who declared the surrounding 250 square miles a national marine reserve in 1979, hence it protects sea turtles, dolphins, whales, dugog and other fish. Since it is nestled among trees on top of sand dunes, it serves as a fantastic haven for other activities like bird watching. If you are keen on cultural visits, you will find two small villages on either side of the island. Whether you re keen on an action-packed holiday or a relaxing getaway, Mike s Camp is certainly a place worth checking out. NB: not advisable to drive, opt to take a flightCONTACT: +254 718 004920www.mikescampkiwayu.comStar rating: 3/5