I work for the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF-Kenya) as a communications officer-graphic design. It s a dream come true to work as a creative in a conservation organisation, since this has always been an issue close to my heart. I previously worked as a creative designer at the Standard Media Group. It s interesting how, through many sleepless nights and countless cups of coffee, I have been able to grow my skill set and advance my career as a creative. I studied graphic design at the University of Nairobi and it s from there that I grew to become the designer I am today. What time do you get up? I get up at 5:30am on weekdays.What is the first thing you do in the morning? I am building a habit of doing morning exercises for approximately 30 minutes.What do you have for breakfast and why? Normally, I have a cup of tea, brown bread and eggs. I find this to be a perfect starter for me.What is your day at work like? I get to work at around 7.30. The first thing I do is check my mail and plan for the day, according to the requests I have. I write down the list of work I have and check the box when I complete. I also get to check the dailies in the morning. I work through the day, with occasional breaks just to allow my creativity to flow. I leave the office at five in the evening.What do you have for lunch and what is your afternoon like. I often miss lunch but the snacking keeps me going. My afternoon is always busy, but I make it more interesting by playing some music as I work.What time do you get home? I get home at around 6.30 in the evening.What do you have for dinner? Contrary to the advice we are given by health experts, I take a heavy dinner, especially because I skip my lunches. I am a ugali and fish lover. I also love rice with meaty stews. Occasionally, githeri makes the menu.What do you do before bed and what time do you get to bed. I love to relax when I get home and I do that by watching a nice TV programme or some comedy movies. I also like to read interesting articles online and pass time laughing at the funny blogs we are blessed to have in Kenya. I also spend time chatting the evening away with my significant other. I get to bed at around 10pm.What do you do on Saturdays? I spend most of my Saturdays outdoors. Either meeting friends or clients who need some design help, or visiting places. I always strive to spend as much time outdoors as possible.What do you do on Sundays? Sunday is a relaxed day and I spend most of the time indoors. I also like to catch some football action in the evenings, as I wind down the weekend.