Kitui Governor Julius Malombe has denied he has ditched Wiper.This comes shortly after rumours spread that he held a three-day meetings with his supporters to plan how he will move from Wiper due to the pressure in the party, where Senator David Musila, the party chairman, plans to unseat him.Malombe said he is the only loyal governor who supports Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka 100 per cent.He said if he leaves, Kalonzo will be politically shaken since Musila has failed him by letting MPs decamp to Jubilee.Malombe said as party chairman, Musila s primary role is to ensure supporters don t leave the party. He said he will support Kalonzo s presidential bid to the last minute.Malombe spoke to the Star on the phone, saying Kitui residents have said they cannot afford to lose him and that they need him on the ballot.He said he is sure of defeating Charity Ngilu and Musila due to his development record.UNSHAKEN I am not shaken and I am sure Musila and Ngilu will share 15 per cent of the votes as I get the rest. They had 20 years in power, what do they have to show to the people of Kitui? the governor said. Some were even in powerful ministries with billions of shillings, which they could have used to improve the welfare of Kitui. Moreover they cannot appreciate any development, their work is to criticise. Malombe said the only way peaceful nominations will be held in Kitui is if Musila resigns as party chairman since he cannot be referee and player at the same time.Musila is contesting for governor and has said the party has got its owners. Malombe said there are plans to make sure Kambas are not united and that is why some MPs have moved to the Jubilee Party. He called for unity among the Kamba.Musila and Ngilu have been criticising Malombe, saying he has not done anything for the people of Kitui. Thousands of boda boda operators throughout Kitui plan to support Malombe s reelection and fan out into remote areas to campaign for him.Representatives drawn from all eight subcounties, led by association chairman Kelvin Kivala, told Malombe they will mobilise support.Kivala said, The massive 11,000-member boda boda fraternity is fully behind the governor. We cannot be taken for granted because we have social, economic and political clout. 