Tapio Laukkanen has finally been declared Kenya National Rally Championship title winner after Team Kibos duo of Jaspreet Chatthe and Gugu Panesar withdrew their earlier protest and appeal. The matter had been referred to the Kenya Motor Sports Federation appeals court after protest and counter protest by Chatthe and Tapio respectively. We refer to our protest lodged yesterday (Sunday) against car No. 2 and the subsequent appeal. In the interest of harmony and competitor relations, we have reconsidered our position and herewith officially withdrew our protest and appeal. We feel that harmony will play a bigger role in the sport than Championship and towards a better spirit of competition. We congratulate Tapio Laukkanen and the entire MRT Racing team for winning the KNRC 2016 drivers championship. Best regards and wishes from Team Kibos, read the statement. Tapio, who had sealed the KNRC title at penultimate stage after finishing fourth behind winner Rajbir Rai, Manvir Baryan and Jaspreet Chatthe had to cool his heals pending the verdict of the two protests.Tapio s championship celebrations were put on hold on Sunday when Chatthe lodged a protest against what he termed an illegal airflow box on Tapio s Subaru GVB13 R4 car. But Tapio counter protested against Chatthe being towed out of the last stage by one of the rally drivers after his car had stalled. Meanwhile, Tash Tundo and Chantal Louise Young have savoured KNRC Division 3 championship honours after a consistent drive. The Hai Rally Chix entered their names in the annals of rallying history as the first ever all-female crew to lay their hands on the Division 3 diadem. I am so happy about it and I m proud of the whole team. I think we have been so consistent this season and Chantal and I have got a partnership going now, said Tash.The Hai Rally Chix had their campaign effectively sewn up when his closest challenger Osman Abdullahi retired. We retired 8km from end of rally when the front right wheel studs sheered and the tyre was recovered some 300 meters away in the bush, said Osman. Onkar Singh Rai and his co-driver Gareth Dawe won the KNRC Division 1 championship title after attaining an unassailable lead at penultimate stage. Closest class adversary Jasmeet Channa can t catch up even if he wins the last round in Naivasha at the end of the month.Shamba Boyz driver Mahesh Halal was all smiles after sealing the KNRC Division 2 diadem, incidentally in the absence of his nephew and regular navigator Ketan Halai. Eric Bengi, who is also gunning for 2WD honours is assured of second position in the class even if he skips the last round. Ian Duncan won the Group N Drivers Championship despite not finishing. Duncan s navigator, Amar Slaatch has a tougher competition in the co-drivers championship. Chandu Devji skipped the rally and will now be compelled to fight for the Group S honours on homestretch with Edward Maina. Kitengela had two S class drivers in Maina and Taiti Wachira, who never scored points. Maina is just four points behind Chandu. Asad Khan and his navigator Harshil Limbani already have SPV Class title in the bag.Eric Bengi has a 14 points buffer from Alex Lairang after winning his fourth class of the season. Tuta Mionki is 11 points away from becoming the first lady to claim a Two Wheel Drive since Carol Wahome.