Dr Ben Carson said Tuesday that President-elect Donald Trump has offered him the job of secretary of Housing and Urban Development."Has it been offered, sir?" Fox News Channel host Neil Cavuto asked the world-renowned neurosurgeon. "We have had offers, yes," Carson replied."And is it the HUD position?" Cavuto pressed. "I would say that was one of the offers that's on the table," Carson replied.Two Trump transition spokespersons did not respond to a request for confirmation that Carson has been asked to serve in the Trump administration cabinet. Carson's statement came after a meeting with Trump and a tweet from the president-elect that suggested it went well. "I am seriously considering Dr Ben Carson as the head of HUD. I've gotten to know him well - he's a greatly talented person who loves people!' Trump wrote on Twitter.Speaking to Cavuto, Carson said that "our inner cities are in terrible shape and they definitely need some real attention.""You know, there have been so many promises made over the last several decades and nothing has been done, so it certainly is something that has been a long-term interest of mine and I ll be thinking and praying about it seriously over the holiday."The doctor and onetime presidential candidate had said previously that he was reluctant to take on a role in government, insisting on Sunday that he would prefer to be an outside adviser. Just two days earlier, Carson seemed to be warming up to the idea of coming on board after saying he had already turned down opportunities."Basically, I've said my preference is to be outside and to act as an adviser, but if after going through the process they all conclude it would be much better to have me in the cabinet, I would have to give that very serious consideration," Carson said Sunday on Fox News."It's just not my preference," he added.But a Carson spokesman said on Wednesday that Trump had not offered the job, disputing a report by the Wall Street Journal."Trump did not make an offer," Carson spokesman Armstrong Williams told Reuters. "He asked him to consider HUD. Nothing has been offered and no decision has been made."The Wall Street Journal earlier had cited Williams as saying Carson had been offered the post and had accepted. The Journal later corrected its story to say Carson was being considered for the HUD job."@realDonaldTrump is considering @RealBenCarson for a cabinet post. Dr Carson is prayerfully &amp; seriously considering," Armstrong said on Twitter. On Tuesday,.Armstrong had told Reuters that Trump had asked Carson to consider taking the post and that Carson was considering it.As recently as last week, Carson, 65, had told The Washington Post he was not interested in a Cabinet job, saying, "Having me as a federal bureaucrat would be like a fish out of water."But he and Trump met on Tuesday at Trump Tower in New York, and earlier on Wednesday Carson posted on Facebook that after the talks he felt "that I can make a significant contribution particularly to making our inner cities great for everyone."