President Uhuru Kenyatta has affirmed that the Jubilee administration s transformation agenda will not be derailed by the propaganda spread by the opposition.Citing flagship projects implemented across the country since 2013, Uhuru said the government s development record speaks for itself. Compared to before 2013 when there were only 2.3 million Kenyans connected to electricity, today more than 5.3 million have electricity. We have issued a record three million title deeds in the short period we have been in office compared to only one million that had been issued since independence, he said on Friday. He added: We are building a modern railway line, we are constructing roads all over the country, providing free maternity services in public hospitals and paying exam fees for all students among many other initiatives to lift the lives of Kenyans. Uhuru was speaking at Kasarani Sports Complex in Nairobi during the Joyful Women Organisation s thanksgiving ceremony and annual general meeting. JoyWo is a table banking NGO whose patron is Deputy President William Ruto s spouse, Rachel.The Head of State said the government is focused on ensuring that the lives of all Kenyans are lifted, emphasising the need for national unity and shunning divisive politics propagated by the opposition. Let us join hands in ensuring that we move our nation forward and ensure that all Kenyans enjoy economic freedom and progress, he said.Uhuru also asked the opposition to stop tarnishing the good work the Jubilee Government is doing for the country and instead give credit where it is due.On gender equality, Uhuru said for the first time in the country s history women have been given prominent cabinet positions, including the Defence, Environment and Foreign Affairs dockets.The President commended Rachel for complementing the Government s efforts to improve the lives of Kenya through the JoyWo that is making a big difference in the lives of women and families, especially in the rural areas.The organisation which started in 2009 has grown by leaps and bounds, now boasting of a Sh2 billion revolving fund.During the occasion, Uhuru also launched the JoyWo s 2017 2021 Strategic plan.The DP commended the table banking initiative and urged women to take advantage of the 30 per cent government procurement allocation to boost their businesses. Do not be intimidated. This is your opportunity to work with the government which does not discriminate any Kenyan, Ruto said.On the fight against corruption, Ruto said the government will not relent in its effort to eradicate the vice. We want all the institutions charged with fighting corruption to do their job without fear or favour, he said.Other speakers included First Lady Margaret Kenyatta, Rachel and Public Service CS Sicily Kariuki.Uhuru, Ruto, Rachel and Margaret received awards in recognition of their efforts to lift the lives of Kenyans, while JoyWo was awarded for being the best NGO.