Donald Trump has broken all the rules of politics.It s not just the political establishment in Washington DC, or the Fortune 500 movers in Wall Street who were caught napping, but also the very people entrusted with informing us about where the nation was headed to who got it all wrong. Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton was poised to win in this election. Credible pollsters predicted a win for her in a tightly contested race.Trump s elders in the Republican Party, and sometimes the Republican National Committee, viewed him as anathema to the overall objectives of the party.Come elections night and the polls began to close, and Trump rocked the boat as he swept the board. He won the usual red states such as South Carolina, North Dakota, Kansas, Georgia and Mississippi but all these weren t taken seriously because they were viewed as solidly red anyway. Once all the deep blue states had been called, Democrats hoped for a miracle in the remaining battleground states. Their spirits were crushed as Trump continued to chip into the counties and states that President Barack Obama won in 2008 and 2012. As the night wore on, few states were left to give Hillary a chance to win.So what happened? What went so wrong?First we must understand who the Trump target audience was. And it was the White vote. He understood the whites are the overwhelming majority, and his main goal was to speak to their instincts: Instill fear in them as a species under threat of extinction, and that way get them to turn out to vote. And turn out they did, including millions of a silent majority who had never voted before.Second is the element of Republicans having control over the Congress. Thirty-four out of 50 state Secretaries of State are Republicans.State Secretaries of State usually run elections in their respective states. That comes down to calling the shots as to where the voting precincts will be located. In Republican states such as North Carolina, we have documented reports of black neighborhoods getting polling precincts reduced, under the pretext of budgetary constraints.Americans, despite having elected the first black man as President in Obama, are not ready to elect a woman President. They won t say it, but they would rather have voted in a polished black man, than consider a white woman to occupy the White House. And at least not when that woman had so much baggage from her past political and public life.But we got to give it to her. Clinton assembled a massive operational ground game that out-raised Trump 2-1, with about more than a billion dollars raised. Trump raised about $400 million. Her surrogates sent out emails every hour since the start of the early voting to remind us to go and vote. One of the emails I received was asking me to sign up, to receive a phone bank to call 50 people and ask them to vote. She had the money, the ground game, but the enthusiasm gap was visible and palpable. Trump supporters were enthusiastic, which translated into a near-fanatical turnout. Whether it was when she ran against Obama, or Bernie Sanders, there s a vulnerability about every Hillary Clinton campaign that sees it start off as the top dog, but collapses or gets fatigued as time wears it away. We all know from the leaked DNC emails that Sanders fate was predetermined as super-delegates had more say than the pledged delegates.Voter suppression was a major concern which affected minority turnout in the Republican controlled states. the Black vote easily gets suppressed because of their limited means of transport to voting centres. This was better perfected in 2012, when Obama turned traditionally red states blue by primarily turning out Black and Latino voters. Trump killed the Black spirit by speaking about their predicament despite voting democratic at every election. They sure didn t pick Trump, but they voted Trump by staying away.