Harambee Stars will be seeking to extend their unbeaten run to eight games this afternoon when they face off with Liberia at Moi International Sports, Centre at 4pm.The game comes just three days after the Kenyan stars grabbed a vital 1-0 win over Mozambique in a friendly at the same venue, thanks to Erick Johanna s lone first half strike.Harambee Stars head coach Stanley Okumbi is optimistic that his charges will put up the same fighting spirit today and is aiming for a second win in just three days.Posta Rangers midfielder Calvin Odongo, who made his debut as a substitute will be eyeing a starting berth in today s encounter. The team will be reinforced by the arrival of Ayub Timbe, who jetted in the country on Saturday but watched the Mozambique clash from the stands. The winger, based in Belgium, will be hoping to make a cut to the starting eleven. The Lierse SK player has had a fine run with the national team, scoring in the encounters against Congo Brazzaville where Harambee Stars won 2-1 and in the 1-1 draw versus Zambia.Speaking after the win on Saturday, FKF boss Nick Mwendwa urged the boys to replicate the display against Mozambique in today s match.The two teams have clashed twice, with Liberia winning one and settling for a draw in the other. This heaps pressure on the Kenyan lin-up to grab their first win against the Lone Stars today. Liberia arrived in the country on Sunday and had their first training session at Utalii grounds on the same day. They also trained yesterday at the same venue at the Moi International Sports Centre in a bid to have the feel of the pitch. This is the third time the two teams are meeting with Kenya having lost once and and drawn once. The two last met in 1989 with Kenya registering a goal-less draw away in Monrovia and losing 1-0 here at home.Kenyans are s ranked 85 in the current Fifa ranking while their today s opponents are ranked 104 19 places behind Harambee Stars. Harambee Stars will be seeking a positive result that will see them move up in the next Fifa ranking. The tickets for the matching will be retailing at a flat rate of Sh200.