Opposition leaders are walking a tightrope as their lieutenants pressure them to denounce massive corruption in Cord counties, not just the Jubilee-led government. The message is no double standard. This comes amid reports of alleged loss of funds in some Cord-controlled counties. Cord co-principals Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang ula have been told to speak out against corruption wherever it occurs.In the biggest county scam on record, an estimated Sh1.18 billion was allegedly stolen from the Kilifi county executive accounts. Amason Kingi of ODM is the Kilifi governor.The money is said to have been siphoned to assorted companies, following alleged infiltration of the Integrated Financial Management System.Yesterday, Ford Kenya deputy party leader Boni Khalwale and Wiper secretary general Hassan Omar said the three principals should step up and speak against loss of public funds. We in Cord have said that corruption knows neither Jubilee nor Cord. We must speak in one voice against this vice that is costing Kenyans a fortune, Omar, who is also the Senator of Mombasa, said.Khalwale said, A lot of money is being lost daily and this is unacceptable. Referring to the collapse of a section of the Sh1 billion Bukhungu Stadium, Khalwale, also the Kakamega senator, said taxpayers lost the money due to recklessness . Kakamega is controlled by ODM. We saw the caving in of this stadium. This is another form of corruption that must be nipped in the bud, he said.ODM deputy party leader and key Raila ally Wycliffe Oparanya is the governor for Kakamega.The future of the multi-billion shilling stadium in Kakamega county now hangs in the balance after the Senate tried to halt construction.Oparanya was given 10 days to submit a detailed statement on the possible causes of the cave-in and provide details on procurement.Kiharu MP Irungu Kang ata said President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto have taken the lead in denouncing any form of corruption in the counties. All of the impeachment motions against governors, which have come to the Senate, touch on Jubilee governors, he said.