ODM lawmakers and some Samburu legislators yesterday demanded that nominated MP Sarah Lekorere be arrested and charged following the reported Monday scuffle with Laikipia North's Mathew Lempurkel.In a press briefing, the six legislators, led by ODM secretary for Political Affairs Opiyo Wandayi (Ugunja) and Director of Elections Junet Mohamed (Suna East) criticised the police for "applying the law selectively" by charging Lempurkel of assault and leaving Lekorere.Wandayi claimed that Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery and the Jubilee leadership are harassing Lempurkel to "settle unnecessary political scores" for being the only ODM legislator from Laikipia county."If the two engaged in a scuffle, where on earth can you go arrest one person and leave the other free? We are telling Nkaissery that if you do not arrest Lekorere because of some orders from above then people will exercise their power under the Constitution to execute a citizen arrest," he said.More on this story: Read: Memo that fueled altercation between MP Lempurkel, LokerereLempurkel denies assaulting Lekorere, released on Sh100,000 cash bailMohamed said Lempurkel is being victimised and demanded that Nkaissery produce CCTV footage showing who assaulted the other because the incident occurred in his office."We know it is political victimisation based on party affiliation. The court pronounced itself on the matter and Lempurkel freed on bond but he has again been arrested to record a statement with CID and detained on baseless undisclosed allegations. Nkaissery should know that Kenya is not under military government," he said.Mohamed demanded that Lempurkel be released immediately. He also demanded that five MCAs who allegedly attacked Lempurkel during the scuffle be arrested and charged.Samburu North MP Alois Lentoimaga (Jubilee) said Lempurkel was not being victimised for his party affiliation, but because he from the minority Samburu community in Laikipia."This is injustice against Samburus in Laikipia. It is all about evicting Samburus from there and we are not going to leave because the Constitution allows anybody to reside anywhere in this country. We have land, cattle and houses there. We demand that Lekorere, the cause of this victimisation, be arrested and charged," he said.Kajiado Central MP Memusi Kanchori expressed disappointment in the manner the police were handling the issue. He warned that the country may plunge into chaos if police are used to settle political scores. "The leaders fought and we don't understand why the law is being applied selectively. We cannot say who is right or wrong. We don't understand why police have concluded that Lempurkel is one on the wrong," Kanchori said.Other MPs at the press briefing were Simba Arati (Dagoretti North), Lati Lelelit (Samburu West) and Raphael Letimalo (Samburu East).They were accompanied by Lempurkel supporters who chanted folk songs expressing solidarity with their MP while demanding Lekorere to be charged with assault.