The Constitution does not permit abortion but provides an exception.Article 26(4) allows abortion if in the opinion of a trained health professional, there is a need for emergency treatment or the life or health of the mother is in danger, or if permitted by any other written law. This is an advancement from the old constitution which only allowed abortion to protect the pregnant woman s life. Evelyne Opondo, the regional director for Africa at the Nairobi-based Centre for Reproductive Rights, says Kenyan women are yet to benefit from the new law. She says thousands of women continue to die in illegal, unsafe abortion procedures. This is largely due to the Director of Medical Services arbitrary withdrawal of the government s guidelines and a ban on safe abortion trainings for health care professionals. As part of implementing the 2010 constitution and its abortion provisions, the ministry of health spearheaded the development of the Standards and Guidelines for reducing morbidity and mortality for unsafe abortion in Kenya, adopted in September 2012. The Director of Medical Services then withdrew the standards and guidelines on December 3, 2013, under unclear circumstances and without involving the stakeholders who participated in their development. This has led to great confusion as to when legal abortions can be provided. The deaths and injuries of these women can be prevented and must be prevented. Medical professionals in Kenya must be trained and given clear standards and guidelines on providing women who qualify for services and need to end a pregnancy with safe, legal care, Opondo says. The centre has already filed a petition at the High Court asking that the guidelines be reinstated. They say the withdrawal and the memo prohibiting safe abortion training for health care professionals violate a number of human rights for both women and health workers. These include the rights to health, information, and the enjoyment of the benefits of scientific progress. The petition also says that although rape is one of the legal grounds for termination of pregnancy in Kenya per the Ministry of Health National Guidelines on the Management of Sexual Violence, rape survivors are still unable to access legal abortion services. The Center urges the High Court to protect women s health and lives by restoring safe abortion training and calls on the ministry to introduce standards and guidelines that appropriately clarify when legal abortion can be provided based on the grounds set forth in the Constitution. According to Laila Abdul Latif, an advocate with the Rachier &amp; Amollo Advocates, there are many legal questions that arise from that exception for abortions. For instance, the law does not clarify who is a trained health professional, or what is emergency treatment and what constitutes danger to the life or health of a mother. The International Conference for Population and Development in 1994 elaborated that reproductive health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease, she says.