Why @Martha Karua? Why? You have stood up for so long. Please don&rsquo;t sit now. If you can&rsquo;t win, lose with honour.&rdquo; Professor Makau Mutua on Twitter. My great teacher:She simply had to do it! It was inevitable in my humble but considered view, Prof. In this moment, trapped alone and weary in a vast, dire, arid, desiccated, political desert where tribalism is king, Martha Karua had two options left. The first, as you noted on Twitter, was to continue the hard, long, lonely, gruesome and ultimately futile walk alone, slogging against an unforgiving and irresistible tribal sand storm where she would, as you plaintively advised, &ldquo;lose with honor&rdquo;. But Prof, please consider these very words: &ldquo;lose with honour&rdquo;. My own submission is that Karua would not just have &ldquo;lost with honor&rdquo;, she would have actually politically perished with honour. This is because her political fortunes would certainly have been eviscerated in 2017 and obliterated come 2022.The tyranny of tribal hegemony assures us this: One opposes the Muthamaki at his or her own, often grave, peril. Anyone within the tribe who has been presumed to have the temerity of being contrarian to Muthamaki has been summarily branded as a Judas Iscariot and then been swiftly sentenced and consigned to tribal Siberia. For, in the court of tribal opinion, it is considered to ignoble, treacherous and heinous high treason to even imagine that the king can be naked.Hence, for Karua, there really was no option; Just the certainty of eternal political oblivion if she did not change her political course. It is in this vein that I would respond to your lament on twitter, &ldquo;@MarthaKarua The reasons you give for supporting @UKenyatta reelection are simply unconvincing. You&rsquo;ve let down a lot of supporters.&rdquo; Our history offers us great lessons. You will recall how our original Muthamaki, Jomo Kenyatta, the Burning Spear, personally and ruthlessly dealt with Bildad Kaggia&rsquo;s conscientious rebellion in the 1960s. Viewed in this light, Karua&rsquo;s is &ldquo;retreat&rdquo; and not necessarily &ldquo;surrender&rdquo;; in contradistinction to your view that, &ldquo;The last domino in Gikuyu country has fallen with @MarthaKarua now backing @UKenyatta and Jubilee. The tribe once again TRUMPS nation&rdquo;.There are a few cases pointing towards that direction. For instance, please recall how Kanu &ldquo;swallowed&rdquo; Kadu in 1964. Recall, too, how Kadu came into power in 1978 and remained atop the Kenyan political food chain until 2002, when it was electorally removed by the National Rainbow Coalition. Case 2: The merger between Kanu and Raila Odinga&rsquo;s National Democratic Party in 2002 that later led to fatal political indigestion within the emergent New Kanu party; and ultimately the political and electoral demise of the political colossus that was our Independence party.Prof, what initially may have seemed political surrender eventually and ultimately created the material conditions for either a hostile political takeover of the dominant party or the weaponisation of already existing internal political contradictions within it, leading to its political weakening. Hence, it is in this context that I view Karua&rsquo;s decision: Between the flickering hope of political survival and the precipitous risk of certain political death, these two being her only options, she has elected the former. And it now not only provides her with the survival option but also one of &ldquo;fighting&rdquo; from within as the Kadu and NDP examples show. In the not-at-all-ideal reality of Gikuyu politics, these are not shabby options for Karua. Indeed, she has gone one step further: While joining Muthamaki&rsquo;s Jubilee Party, she has, in addition, declined to wind up her Nark Kenya party. Hear her:&ldquo;Since our party has offices in most parts of the country, it will field candidates for all six elective positions, save for President, since we will be supporting Uhuru&rsquo;s reelection in the general election&rdquo;. This has clearly not at all gone down well with Muthamaki&rsquo;s key sycophants and cohorts. At the weekend, David Murathe was heard &ldquo;advising&rdquo; Martha to fold Nark-K and join Muthamaki&rsquo;s party. Hear too Johnson Sakaja: &ldquo;In my opinion, they have to dissolve their parties to follow President Uhuru Kenyatta. Otherwise, the parties are in opposition to Jubilee&hellip;If they support the President because of his philosophy, principles of leadership and because he is doing a good job, then they should dissolve their parties &mdash; otherwise our supporters are not going to support them&rdquo;. In short, Karua has wedded the Jubilee Party and not the other way round. And she is clearly not doing this because she is a rosy-eyed political bride who buys uncritically into Muthamaki&rsquo;s philosophy, history and leadership record; or, for that matter, that of the Deputy President and Jubilee heir-apparent, William Samoei Ruto. Rather, it is her political survival instincts that have kicked in.Prof, you know all too well how we valiantly battled with Karua; when as the political Rottweiler of the Mwai Kibaki presidency, she was politically aligned with some of those who now take great pleasure in humiliating and ostracising her. How we questioned her at every turn as we counselled her to temper her political rhetoric and action so as to ensure that the imperial undergirds and tendencies of the presidency were properly subdued. She did not; and for that she has been paying the political price since 2013.For this, I take no joy: I only hope and pray she has learnt that the best political pathway is one of political equality and non-discrimination and not one of privilege and hierarchy. For the reasons submitted, I respectfully beg you, my teacher, to accord Karua a chance; which is not to give her a pass.Ngure wa Gachanja is a human rights and democratic governance practitioner. The views expressed in this column are entirely his own and in no way represent or articulate those of any organizations he may be associated with.