Kisii county should not be blamed for the building collapse that killed eight people and injured 45 on November 10, Governor James Ongwae has said.Ongwae responded on Wednesday to Transport CS James Macharia's attribution of the collapse of buildings to low capacity for supervision.Macharia told the National Assembly Transport committee that the county and police failed to enforce two suspension orders from the National Construction Authority stopping the owner from exceeding the five-floor limit. The building had 10 floors.But Ongwae saidthe county had capacity in terms of equipment to carry out rescue and recovery operations when such incidents occur.The Governor noted that equipment including excavators, ambulances, fire engines and bulldozers belonged to the county. He said the Kenya Defence Forces only came with technical support. I take great exception on claims that the Kisii county ignored advice from the Construction Authority suspending the project," he added in a statement. This culture of passing the buck must stop and this is why during the rescue and recovery efforts, I did not apportion blame to anyone including the national government."He spoke as the rescue and recovery operations concluded on Tuesday.Ongwae further said that last year, he ordered the evacuation of people from a highrise building in Kisii town before it collapsed, preventing casualties. The claims that the county was not aware and did nothing do not arise, he said. County governments are fairly nascent and in the face of disasters like this one, we did our best. We are in a continuous learning process. When a whole ministry tries to pass the buck on another level of government, it is unfortunate. Capacity doesn t come in a vacuum."Read: Kisii county, police blamed for collapsed buildingOf the 44 people injured when the building collapsed last week, 41 were treated and discharged, said Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital CEO Enock Ondari. One was transferred to Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital for specialised treatment.Ongwae said the county government waived the medical bills and charges for the mortuaries and post mortem exams. He also said his administration will help transport the bodies to respective homes for burial.The Governor asked residents to keep off adjacent buildings that developed cracks following collapse until experts advice the county government.Lieutenant Colonel Joseph Martim, who led the rescue and recovery operation, urged the county to train fire fighters so they can respond effectively to disasters.Read:Death toll in Kisii building collapse rises to nineKisii county commissioner Kula Hache warned the proprietor of the building against defying orders to appear before the CID in Kisii to record a statement. The owner has been summoned. I am warning him that he will face dire consequences if he ignores the order, the commissioner said.Hache said that site engineer recorded a statement.Read:Rescue operations at collapsed Kisii building end, CID summons owner