Newly elected chairman of the National Parents Association Nicholas Kibitok Maiyo grew up with the passion to be a leader and the desire to be a politician so as to influence policies that affect Kenyans.In 1997 he joined Kanu and was elected a civic leader for Ziwa-Sirikwa ward of then Uasin Gishu County Council.But he faded out of elective politics in 2002 to concentrate on community leadership focusing on issues affecting schools, particularly parents. I am a politician but for now I want to concentrate on shaping the association to be a body that will effectively address interests of parents in the education sector, he says.Maiyo was brought up in very humble circumstances.He says, I saw my parents toiling and struggling for us and it s then that I realised how important a parent is in shaping the life of a child. From then I have always felt that parents are a key stakeholders in the educations sector. He regrets that for many years parents contribution have largely been ignored in the sector.Instead the other players like the government and school managers have been dictating terms as concerns school fees, discipline, books, curriculum and other issues.He now feels that the reforms undertaken by Education CS Fred Matiangi and his PS Kipsang Belio will help to transform the sector and put emphasis on all stakeholders playing their role in education matters. I want to work very closely with the CS so that we put in place a child-centred education system where parents, teachers, sponsors and other stakeholders will have equal say because they all have a role to play, Maiyo, who serves as a member of several school parents associations in North Rift, says.He also has views on the recent wave of arson in schools and levels of indiscipline among learners.He feels these are issues that can be dealt with only if stakeholders do not ignore each others role in the upbringing of children. As an association they will also lobby to have the government deal with the issue of pay for teachers once and for all , he says. It s time we resolve this issue and develop a structured way to handle teachers remuneration. He regrets political interference in the management of schools and some leaders even having their portraits put examination papers. We don t need to politicise our education to that extend. It s morally wrong to attempt to misuse young children for selfish personal political interests. It unacceptable. 