The Jubilee administration yesterday defended itself against accusations it has been frustrating land reforms.During a Land summit held at State House, the Ministry of Lands and Physical Planning listed achievements in transforming land management.Lands CS Jacob Kaimenyi said the achievements include one of the Jubilee manifesto flagship projects of issuing three million title deeds. The ministry has presented a scorecard on its mandate to ensure efficient and sustainable management of the land resource through policy directions.Kaimenyi, who was put on the spot by participants, said his ministry aims to restore trust in the land titling system. The ministry, in collaboration with the National Land Commission, has also launched the National Land Information Management System, the CS said.The NLIMS will be the custodian of digitised data on land to enhance efficiency. Instead of lining up at the ministry to obtain information, any resident, including land buyers, agents or government agency will visit the NLIMS website and get information relating to any piece of land. The ministry has also initiated the digitisation of 13 land registries that has seen the automation of land registration transactions.The process will reduce the possibility of losing or tampering with property data and reduce the time it takes for a transaction to be completed. The process of digitising another 12 out of 57 land registries is at 79 per cent. The 12 logs will be finalised by December 2016, said the CS.The CS said the ministry has been implementing land reforms geared towards equitable access and use of the land resource. The land question has been shaped by economic, political, social and legal parameters, Kaimenyi said.In fast-tracking the issuance of titles, the CS said the government has temporarily waived land adjudication and survey fees, registration charges worth Sh5.85 billion for three million title deeds and charges for processing title deeds.He said the Jubilee government is on course to surpass the target of issuing three million title deeds. Kaimenyi said the accelerated registration would improve the livelihoods of Kenyans. From 1963 to 2012 successive governments accomplished the surveying and mapping of 1,031km of roads on the Kenya-Ethiopia border, averaging 21 km per year.