There is no such clan as Dwond Kisumo, Nyakach MP hopeful Vincent Kodera has said. The outfit is only meant to mislead residents to vote for the person for governor, he said. Yesterday, the Star reported Dwond Kisumo chairman John Ombija saying Kisumu West residents are in talks with other clans to pick a candidate to run for governor. He said they are in talks with residents from Kisumu East, Kisumu Central, Nyakach, Nyando and Muhoroni.Ombija said they have competent and highly intelligent people to run the county. He said Dwond Kisumo plans to take a position on how the county should be governed and managed.But Kodera yesterday said professionals and opinion leaders should unite residents and educate them to make wise electoral decisions, instead of forming ghost clans for propaganda.&ldquo;The nonexistent clan is fronted by a few individuals. It should be rejected, as it&rsquo;s used by people with self-seeking agenda,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Everybody is entitled to form any group, but that should be based on development and political inclusion.&rdquo;Elders have endorsed a number of aspirants for governor. They include Senator Anyang&rsquo; Nyong&rsquo;o, WFP employee Asaka Nyangara, architect Christopher Ondiek, banker David Wayiera, former lecturer Gordon Okumu, businessman Hezron Mc&rsquo;Obewa, surgeon James Obondi and Deputy Governor Ruth Odinga.Kodera said residents will pick their preferred candidate based on competence, integrity and capacity to promote unity, not clan-based exclusion.&ldquo;It&rsquo;s unconstitutional for some people to say they will determine the next county government based on clan. We must look forward to having an inclusive government,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We know the person whom those behind Dwond Kisumo want to front. They will be shocked when voters decide.&rdquo;The hopeful said for development to be realised, all clans must be involved in governance. Kisumu has seven subcounties &mdash; Kisumu Central, Kisumu East, Kisumu West, Muhoroni, Nyakach, Nyando and Seme.The former Roads executive urged leaders to unite residents, instead of dividing them along clans. He said unity is needed to improve lives. Kisumu City Residents Voice Association&rsquo;s chairman Audi Ogada echoed the sentiments. &ldquo;We&rsquo;re interested in equity in jobs and resource distribution,&rdquo; he said.