Martin Luther King Jr, the celebrated American civil rights icon, once said, There comes a time when silence is betrayal. The Church has been eerily silent at a time when extrajudicial killings have been on the rise, insecurity rife and recently, at news of audit queries of the use of the Sh5.2 billion allocated to the ministry of Health.Not long ago, there was a suggestion by the Attorney General that the churches should be taxed and suddenly, there was thunderous uproar from Christian organisations such as the National Council of Churches in Kenya and the Kenya Christian Church Forum, and all manner of scriptures were invoked until that suggestion was shelved.In 2010 during the plebiscite campaigns, the Church led the No campaign to reject the proposed Constitution. Their argument was that if the draft passed, it would legalise gay marriages, criminalise evangelism, entrench Sharia Law because Kadhi Courts were retained and allow abortion on demand.Many night vigils, keshas, were held countrywide and congregants were warned of disobeying God s directive if they voted for the Constitution and how divine wrath would befall them.With corruption rampant in the country, some quotas have labelled the Jubilee government the most corrupt administration in the history of our country. Nepotism in the government is rife, tribalism has been pervasive in public service appointments and still, the Church is mute when it comes to condemning these forms of maladministration.A conscious Church is what dictates the moral trajectory of society. For instance, King Jr in the 1960s led the civil rights movement with a conviction from his Christian faith that all men were made equal before God. It is the black Church that withstood the persecution of the Jim Crow laws and eventually influenced the executive to repeal racist laws that were prejudicial to African Americans. They spoke up and the government listened and to this day, King Jr s name is reminiscent of a figure of moral rectitude because he spoke up even when he was afraid. His conscience prevented him from remaining quiet in times of injustice.Churches in Kenya have been compromised by a good number of the religious leaders who unashamedly hob nob with politicians synonymous with unethical values that any society should abhor. They should instead be conduits of moral rectitude and good conscience where their authority is derived from an interaction with God and not politicians whose source of wealth is inexplicable or suspected to be from corrupt dealings.Just like King Jr once quipped, There comes a time when one must take a position that is neither safe, nor politic, nor popular but he must take it because conscience tells him it is right. In our time, even when the sick and critically ill are stolen from, the Church should at least speak up or forever lose its credibility and relevance in the court of public opinion.Besides it is written in Proverbs 31:8-9, Speak up for those who cannot speak for themselves, for the rights of all who are destitute. Speak up and judge fairly; defend the rights of the poor and needy. It is now or never for the Kenyan Church.