Former Limuru MP Peter Mwathi has dismissed claims he planned to disrupt last Sunday prayers at Thigio Primary School attended by 12 Central MPs.He said he was invited by Ndeiya Pastors Fellowship to the thanksgiving service for the commissioning of the Muratakwa-Thigio-Kikuyu road.Mwathi was roughed up and ejected from the school by participants, who accused him of plotting to disrupt the service.Speaking on the phone, he said he attended the prayers just like any other resident but his supporters followed him and they were attacked. I do not know why I was blocked and ejected from the school. I am a true believer of God and I didn t want to disrupt the prayers, Mwathi said.Ndeiya Pastors Fellowship chairman David Ng ang a could not be reached for comment. A fellowship member, pastor George Mwaura, said Mwathi was invited as a special guest.However, reports alleged that Mwathi s supporters started shouting at the procession at Mutarakwa, where the construction started. Traffic was caused by vehicles belonging to pastors, MPs, MCAs, government officials and residents, witness Simon Kamau said. Mwathi s vehicle hit the boot of Ndeiya MCA Nelson Munga s car and that s when trouble started. An exchange of words ensued, with Limuru MP John Kiragu trying to intervene, but a fight broke out. When the prossession arrived at the school, Mwathi was blocked from going in.Kiragu said he was unaware that Mwathi was ejected as prayers went on. If he had such an intention, he would have painted a bad picture, he said.Kiragu said the prayers were peaceful and everything went on as planned.MPs present praised Kiragu for pushing the government to build the road, saying it has never been tarmacked since Independence. Kiragu has never rested, he has knocked on all doors to ensure the road is tarmacked, Starehe MP Maina Kamanda said.Kamanda is the chairman of the Parliamentary Roads Committee.Roads and Infrastructure PS John Mosonik was present.MPs who attended included were Ferdinard Waititu (Kabete), Jude Njomo (Kiambu), Kigo Njenga (Gatundu North), Kimani Ichung wa (Kikuyu), Mburu Kahangara (Lari), Moses Kuria (Gaundu South) and Samuel Gichigi of Kipipiri. Also present were Alice Ng ang a (Ruiru Town), Paul Koinange (Kiambaa) and Stephen Kariuki (Mathare).