ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi wants a forensic audit of the Sh38 billion Managed Equipment Service Project (Tiba Mashinani) by the national government. He said the leased hospital equipment was forced onto the county governments in 2014.Mudavadi said the project was launched in the guise of ensuring Kenyans access quality health services, but this has not been the case.He said a major scandal is in the offing, even as the Jubilee government covers up in the alleged misappropriation of Sh.5.3 billion at the Health ministry. Mudavadi spoke on Saturday at Ndoto House in Shella, Lamu, at the end of his two-day tour. The secretive agreements to lease the hospital equipment were motivated by a desire to create a monopoly to benefit a cartel of local dealers and suppliers who are minting profits from the county governments through inflated prices, he said. Unfortunately the cost is definitely transferred to the poor Kenyans seeking treatment. That means very few Kenyans afford the cost of treatment and hence the urgent need for a thorough forensic audit. Mudavadi asked the government to give details of the agreements signed between it and various companies to lease the hospital equipment. Theatre, sterilisation and surgical, ICU, renal, imaging and radiology equipment was to be installed in at least two hospitals per county. Mudavadi asked who Macharia of Seven Seas, an IT company given the sole contract to supply imaging equipment and consumables from General Electric, is. Mudavadi asked whether he is in any way related to former Health CS James Macharia, who is now in charge of Transport and Infrastructure. Who is Mrs Matu of Anjelica Company, given sole supply contract and dealer in dialysis equipment and consumables from Belco Company of Italy? Who is Mr Richard Ngatia of Megascope Company, with a sole contract to supply theatre equipment from Mindray Company of China? Is this the same Ngatia who features prominently in the Sh5.3 billion theft? He asked why the price of imaging film and dialysis consumables from Anjelica go for Sh36,000 and Sh4,500 while on the open market they go for Sh17,000 and Sh3,000.