Do you remember the ODM politicians who disrupted President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s State of the Nation address at the end of March? It now appears that they had a broader agenda in choosing &lsquo;Firimbi movement&rsquo; as the name of their political programme of disruptions. For this reference to firimbi (whistle) has deep and sinister connotations for anyone with knowledge of Kenyan history.The suspended Ugunja MP James Opiyo Wandayi, apparently relishes his nickname, the &lsquo;King of Firimbi&rsquo; &ndash; gained from his being at the front-line of those who kept blowing on their whistles to interrupt the President&rsquo;s speech. But he is a harmless heckler when compared to the &lsquo;Bwana Firimbi&rsquo; of the late 1950s and early 1960s, William Murgor. This was a man who &mdash; in broad daylight &mdash; engaged in what would now be universally recognized as hate speech. And yet he was immensely popular in his native Rift Valley, as a result of this. Consider this sample, from Time magazine in the 1950s:&ldquo;...Urging his followers to sharpen their spears, Kadu&rsquo;s fiery William Murgor warned ominously...&rdquo;If it&rsquo;s clear that Kanu has succeeded in bamboozling the British against our plans for a future Kenya, I&rsquo;ll blow a whistle from London and you will know there must be war.&rdquo;The war he was referring to was one intended to drive the Kikuyu out of the Rift Valley. And what he stood for was an &lsquo;eliminationist&rsquo; agenda, which we cannot be certain, has since been extinguished in that region.The fact is our founding President Jomo Kenyatta, faced an impossible dilemma at the dawn of independence, when the demand for land was the foremost consideration, and particularly in Central Kenya. If the newly demobilised freedom fighters, the Mau Mau, were not given land to farm, there could easily have been a civil war in Central Kenya.The only practical solution was to settle these former Mau Mau &ndash; as well as other landless Kenyans &ndash; in the Rift Valley, where hundreds of departing white settler farmers could be bought out, and their large-scale plantations sub-divided into many thousands of smaller farms. But that was precisely the scheme bitterly opposed by the likes of &lsquo;Bwana Firimbi&rsquo;, and another regional hero of those parts, Jean-Marie Seroney, who authored the &lsquo;Nandi Hills declaration&rsquo; of 1969, which expressed unyielding opposition to the settlement of &lsquo;outsiders&rsquo; on the ancestral land of the Nandi.John Githongo, writing in the Star a few years ago, argued persuasively that Jomo Kenyatta cleverly postponed the clash over land in the Rift Valley between the Kalenjin and the Kikuyu by appointing Daniel arap Moi as his Vice President. The unspoken pact was that the Kalenjin would allow the Kikuyu to live peacefully among them in exchange for their man being next in line for the presidency. His conclusion &ndash; if I remember correctly &ndash; was that this was a short-sighted and delusional political pact that could only hold for so long; that the post-election violence of 2007-08 merely revealed the beginning of the inevitable unraveling of this pact; and that going forward there was yet worse to come.Complicating matters further are, first, Kiambu Governor William Kabogo&rsquo;s recent remarks, widely understood to be an accidental admission that the Kikuyu have all this time been taking the Kalenjin for a ride in their pledge to support William Ruto for the presidency in 2022. And, second, Raila Odinga&rsquo;s efforts to regain the affection of the Kalenjin grassroots.Bearing all this in mind, it could be argued that the ultimate objective of Cord in their current campaign against the IEBC is not just to see key institutions in which the public has largely lost faith reconstituted.It may well be that their political objective is to bring about a cleavage &ndash; at the Rift Valley grassroots &ndash; between the Kikuyu and the Kalenjin. Such a scheme, if successful, may be advantageous for CORD, but it would be a calamity for the nation at large. Having the Kikuyu and the Kalenjin as bitter political rivals - irrespective of who was president or vice president - has always had tragic consequences in the Rift Valley.