Ramogi Radio is graphic when describing aspirants for elective offices: &ldquo;Joma olap thogi ndong&rsquo; ne kom govna.&rdquo; This translates as &ldquo;those salivating for the governor position&rdquo;. Broadcaster Patrobas Agawo is known for bold translations from English or Kiswahili to Dholuo. He started using these phrases long before the devolution of corruption.Musician Lady Maureen gives &lsquo;Agawospeak&rsquo; new meaning: &ldquo;Raila okelo county waneno (Raila fought for devolution whose fruits we can see).&rdquo; There is a new turn to Maureen&rsquo;s tune: &ldquo;Raila okelo county wayako.&rdquo; The twist decries the plunder of county resources.Abuse of devolved funds is captured in the latest Office of the Auditor General&rsquo;s reports. In one county, for example, where the health budget for the 2013-14 financial year was Sh1.8 billion, patients share torn bedsheets at the referral hospital. The dirty wards host bedbugs. An Infotrak opinion poll last week reported the county governments are citadels of corruption, denying the poor the benefits of open competition.Devolution was expected to serve the interests of previously marginalised communities. The Equalisation Fund was supposed to be the icing on the cake.&ldquo;Devolution has been tainted by governors who lack the spirit of devolution. We have a bunch of thieves who are keen on their stomachs,&rdquo; Senator Hassan Omar said during the launch of Anyang&rsquo; Nyong&rsquo;o&rsquo;s campaign for governor in Kisumu last week. Nyong&rsquo;o said, &ldquo;We are not going into politics to amass wealth. We are running for governor because those who are there have failed.&rdquo;Governor hopefuls are battle-ready. The incumbents are abusive and violent. They cannot show how they have spent billions of shillings in annual disbursements from the National Treasury and local revenue collection. The five-year tenure is running out faster than the incumbents expected. They are complaining five years has been too short to lay the foundation for the new concept. But they knew how long five years was before the elections.Some incumbents have personalised the office. Their relatives, cronies, and hired hecklers are spite-ready to defend the fiefdom. Ejecting them from office will be like pulling a goat from the jaws of a pregnant lioness. The incumbents&rsquo; duty, however, will be simple: Show the people how, for example, Sh30 billion in direct National Treasury allocations to each of the counties was used. An investment of, say, Sh2 billion of public money should be visible to the naked eye.The ruckus in Nyeri county, where Governor Nderitu Gachagua slaughtered 15 bulls, served by 15 cooks, to 3,000 supporters last week, is a statement of resistance. The tension in Migori presages the battle between Governor Okoth Obado and former Rongo MP Ochillo Ayacko. Ayacko is salivating for this richly tasty position. The restlessness in Machakos, where Governor Alfred Mutua launched a party with an unusual name, the Maendeleo Chap Chap Movement, smacks of panic. The former government spokesman has been aiming snide remarks at his former party leader Kalonzo Musyoka. He knows he will not be the preferred candidate for the Wiper ticket. He will need his own ladder to climb the cliff.The anxiety in Homa Bay county, where Governor Cyprian Awiti will battle with businessman Sam Wakiaga, is palpable. Wakiaga, a household name in the county, left public office a year before the official schedule to run for this office. The rising tension in Kisumu, where Senator Nyong&rsquo;o has devolved his ambition against the incumbent Jack Ranguma, indicates the coming battle for the control of billions of shillings of decentralised funds.