Recent events in the Kenyan political arena remind me of on an essay I read many years ago by the Russian-born American thinker Anatol Rapoport. I still remember with great clarity the point he made in his essay: That there is a crucial distinction to be made between the facts of &ldquo;natural phenomena&rdquo; (eg biology, chemistry, physics, etc.) and those of &ldquo;man-made phenomena&rdquo; (eg politics, war, etc).And here is the distinction: That man-made phenomena are influenced by what we think or say about them. Natural phenomena cannot in any way be influenced by our thoughts and beliefs.Even if you do not believe in the force of gravity, you will still fall to your death if you jump off a really tall building. That is a fact of physical science. But whenever you find yourself saying &ldquo;that is a fact&rdquo; in discussing politics, then you should remember that politics is a man-made phenomenon. And, as such, what appears to be a &ldquo;fact&rdquo; today may well be invalidated tomorrow.I mention all this just to set a perspective on the widely held assumption - often spoken of as a &ldquo;fact&rdquo; - that President Uhuru Kenyatta cannot lose in the upcoming 2017 general election.Admittedly, no president in our multiparty era, which began in 1991, has ever had so many factors favouring his reelection bid. Of these favourable factors, three stand out: First is that he will very likely face a divided opposition. Thus far the &lsquo;big three&rsquo; opposition leaders have remained remarkably united. But the real test of this unity - the selection of a joint opposition presidential candidate - may yet sever that bond.Second, Deputy President William Ruto cannot possibly take away his support from the President, as &ldquo;he has nowhere to go&rdquo;. As has been asked before, what could the opposition Cord possibly offer him that he does not already have within Jubilee?Finally, the latest opinion polls not only show the President comfortably in the lead, but he has actually been able to stretch this lead over other potential presidential candidates.So the President and his supporters are fully justified in their expectation that the 2017 presidential election results may in time prove to have long been settled in their favour.Be that as it may, I nonetheless suspect that the man most likely to be the President&rsquo;s principal opponent in that election, the former PM Raila Odinga, is not having sleepless nights.This is primarily because he has been there before: And last time around, it was Raila whose victory was considered by his supporters to be a foregone conclusion.At around one year to the March 4, 2013, general election, Raila enjoyed much the same advantage over his political rivals as Uhuru does now.As the co-principal in the grand coalition government he was in some ways just as much an incumbent as Uhuru is at present. He too expected to face a splintered opposition when he ran for president as his key rivals (Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi, etc) were not likely to band together effectively to oppose him.As for Uhuru, the common wisdom then (spoken of by some of Raila&rsquo;s supporters as &ldquo;a plain fact&rdquo;) was that it was inconceivable a candidate from Central Kenya could succeed President Mwai Kibaki.And as for Ruto, then the newly emerged Rift Valley kingpin, the same question may well have been asked: &ldquo;Where will he go, since the Kalenjins obviously will not vote for a Kikuyu presidential candidate?&rdquo; This too was considered back then as &ldquo;a plain fact&rdquo;.Uhuru&rsquo;s victory in 2013 was won by an unprecedented demolishing of many assumptions about Kenyan politics, which were widely regarded as &ldquo;facts&rdquo;, but were merely myths and suppositions.This is why the President cannot afford to be complacent, despite having so many factors favouring his reelection. What happened in 2013 could happen again.