Water CS Eugene Wamalwa had reason to glow with glee like the cat that had the cream. His endorsement by some Kiambu politicians for Nairobi governor excited the man&rsquo;s glands of ambition. Any other politician would have felt equally flattered. But the aftertaste is not appetising now that the &lsquo;project&rsquo; tag and ethnic politics have polluted the endorsement.There was tribal math behind the gamble by the Kiambu politicians. There are also ethnic concerns behind the resistance to Wamalwa. Wamalwa may be a Jubilee partisan, but he does not belong. The furore over the endorsement was, therefore, to be expected.First the ethnic arithmetic behind the rejection: Maina Kamanda, a long-time broker in Nairobi politics, knows the Kikuyu are the dominant community in the city. This clique, therefore, believes the seat should not be occupied by someone from outside the Mt Kenya vote catchment.The governor of Nairobi City County controls about Sh12 billion in direct revenue allocation from the National Treasury. The prize steak is not safe in the hands of an ethnic and political outsider. The clique needs someone they can &lsquo;trust&rsquo; to manage the steak.The Wamalwa endorsement scuttles the dreams of other aspirants, notably Dagoretti South MP Denis Waweru, party carpetbagger Margaret Wanjiru and Jubilee rabble-rouser Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko. Wanjiru and Sonko recently acquired undergraduate degree certificates to meet basic academic requirement for the position.Those who think like Kamanda &ndash; and they are many &ndash; are willing to reassert their ethnic dominance in Nairobi politics. They have gone all-out fighting, even at the religious shrine - Ufungamano House.The fist-fights last week at Ufungamano, the house that has hosted progressive forces from the 1990s, is a premonition. Tribal and partisan bigots have defiled the sanctuary. The confrontation of the steak holders of the Jubilee Alliance is a prelude to the clash of vested interests.There is no better way of illustrating the Mt Kenya ethnic dominance in Nairobi than installing one of their own at City Hall. Governor Evans Kidero was elected to the position, but his legitimacy bloats the history of city politics. The Mt Kenya power clique and the ruling coalition want to reframe this history.Deputy President William Ruto is on record saying the Nairobi governor position is too import to be left in the hands of an &ldquo;outsider&rdquo; to the power formation. But Ruto does not want any other person to hold the seat: He wants a &lsquo;project&rsquo; who will play into his 2022 President Uhuru Kenyatta succession plot.Critics of the endorsement have given Wamalwa a &lsquo;project&rsquo; tag. They claim &lsquo;Boy Eugene&rsquo; is a Ruto project. The endorsement excludes the Mt Kenya political and economic power clique who want their own at City Hall. The conflict is muddying the Jubilee waters a year to the general election.Kidero won in the March 4, 2013, general election because he enjoyed the support of voters from communities that coalesce around Cord. The Luo, Luhya, Kamba and Coast communities, including Muslims, voted for Kidero, then the ODM and Cord candidate.Kidero, then a technocrat from the private sector, also won because he ran against a candidate whose forte was the stone-throwing muddle of Eastlands politics. Kidero&rsquo;s nearest challenger then, Ferdinand Waititu, has since been deported to Kiambu. Waititu won the Kabete parliamentary seat in a by-election last year. Waititu is endorsing Wamalwa to spite Waweru on whose account he was relocated to Kiambu.The Jubliee regime is plotting to eject Kidero by breaking the ethnic equation: The hope to divide the Luyha vote - read Bukusu vote - while consolidating the Nairobi Kikuyu and Kalenjin electorate around Wamalwa.