Former national cricket team captain Maurice Ouma&rsquo;s 12-year international career hangs in the balance after the batsman-cum-wicket keeper was left out of the national cricket team for this weekend&rsquo;s Africa Twenty20 Cup in South Africa.The Swamibapa player, who is currently fourth on the batting chart of the NPCA Super League, has not been training with the national team after failing to secure a contract with Cricket Kenya.Ouma, who has been a member of the national team since 2004 when he made his debut against India, confirmed that since May when the team played Papua New Guinea in the ICC World Cricket League Championships, he has unsuccessfully tried to push for his contract with CK.&ldquo;I plea to CK to hold talks over my contract have fell on deaf ears. My colleagues have either been given new contracts or gotten an extension while I have been left hanging,&rdquo; he said.Ouma said whenever he has sought audience with CK, things haven&rsquo;t worked out well for him. &ldquo;I have sought audience with CK over my future but I have not been granted a hearing,&rdquo; he said. Initially, CK had told Ouma that they were considering doing away with &lsquo;older&rsquo; players. But when players older than him were given new contracts, Ouma got concerned hence the current frustration.&ldquo;Initially, I thought they were doing away with older players as I was told in the first meeting but when my team-mates, who are older than me were given new contracts, I got concerned. Since then, I have not received any proper communication on the same,&rdquo; he said.Ouma was appointed as the successor to the then captain Steve Tikolo in 2009. Ouma, who is yet to score a century for Kenya in his 80 ODI matches, is currently training at his club&rsquo;s base in Parklands. His omission has seen Alex Obanda, who is third in the NPCA batting chart, make a comeback to the national squad. Emmanuel Bundi, who was also part of the team to PNG, was also not considered for selection. Kenya are in Pool &lsquo;B&rsquo; alongside defending champions, Northerns, South Western Districts and Northern Cape. Kenya, Zimbabwe and Namibia are the three continental teams invited to fight it out against South Africa&rsquo;s franchise sides.