Politicisation of the impeachment motion and a faultily drafted crucial charge dealt a blow to the spirited attempt to remove Nyeri Governor Nderitu Gachagua from office.As senators unanimously voted on Wednesday night to save the embattled county chief, it emerged that a move by Nyeri MPs to try to influence the Senate verdict boomeranged on them.Nyeri legislators held road processions and stormed Gachagua&rsquo;s office in Nyeri immediately the county assembly voted to impeach him, in an open expression of their approval of the bid to send the governor home.Their celebratory mood over the governor&rsquo;s downfall frustrated the motion before the two-day special sitting of the Senate as senators burnt the midnight oil to interrogate three charges against Gachagua.On September 2, Nyeri MCAs passed a resolution to impeach Gachagua for violating the constitution, failure to comply with the law and abuse of office leading to loss of Sh1.7 billion.On Wednesday night, senators were angered by messages sent to them by some Nyeri MPs asking them to vote to send the governor home.Senate majority leader Kithure Kindiki (Tharaka Nithi) and Nandi Senator Stephen Sang&rsquo; told the plenary there had been external influence to try and sway the Senate to confirm the three charges against Gachagua.Kindiki said the attempted influence is unacceptable and immoral.&ldquo;We cannot take instructions from anyone on how we are going to make our decision,&rdquo; he said, visibly furious.Sang&rsquo; accused MPs from Nyeri of attempting to dictate to the Senate in the execution of its mandate by lobbying for the impeachment motion.&ldquo;They expressed interest in this matter in processions and have been sending messages here asking us to vote in a certain way. We want to tell them that it is upon this House to make a decision,&rdquo; he said. The poorly drafted second charge of failing to comply with the law watered down the county assembly&rsquo;s case, as it was thrashed by the Senate for failing to comply with the constitution.Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen said the charge was faulty and poorly crafted.Some disappointed Nyeri MPs yesterday criticised the Senate&rsquo;s decision to dismiss the impeachment motion. They accused senators of doing it out of malice to set untenable impeachment standards because most of them want to be governors next year.Nyeri woman representative Priscilla Nyokabi and Mukurweini MP Kabando wa Kabando told the Star the Senate &ldquo;simply deodorised impunity&rdquo;.&ldquo;Despite senators getting evidence on the charges, they decided not to impeach. We are not surprised. Many of them are going to vie for governor. They don&rsquo;t want to set high standards for themselves; they don&rsquo;t want to set high standards for accountability,&rdquo; Nyokabi said.Nyeri MCAs had faulted Gachagua for appointing several officers to the executive in an acting capacity, with some serving more than a year.Nyokabi said the county government cannot be run by almost all officers serving in acting positions when there are qualified people for the jobs. She said the charges against the governor were clear on the use of funds and management of county affairs. Kabando said the motion provided enough grounds on financial improprieties and violation of the law to impeach the governor. &ldquo;Inquiry proceedings and contributions by senators are not consistent with their final vote. Senators fell for the fallacy of sympathy rather than facts. Gachagua is a pathological liar. He won&rsquo;t stop his lies, vendetta and violence,&rdquo; he said.Nyeri Senator Mutahi Kagwe, however, dismissed the MPs&rsquo; criticism. He said the charges did not meet the threshold to impeach Gachagua.&ldquo;You convict on the basis of evidence, not on the basis of popularity. Convictions are done in court or the Senate on the virtue of evidence. If you look at the qualification of the critics and the qualification of those who made the judgment, I think it is fair to say those who made the vote are a lot more experienced than those criticising it,&rdquo; he said.Kagwe said senators Amos Wako (Busia), James Orengo (Siaya) and Kithure Kindiki (Tharaka Nithi), who are respected lawyers, dismissed the motion for lack of adequate evidence.&ldquo;I abstained in the vote because I represent those who voted for and those who voted against because I am the representative of all Nyerians. I respect the judgment,&rdquo; he said.The senator disclosed he is tasked with reconciling county leaders to ensure residents benefit from devolution.Nyokabi supported the call for unity and said they are open to discussions on reconciliation, but insisted leaders will ensure Gachagua&rsquo;s administration spends public money prudently.&ldquo;The impeachment motion is over and everybody now needs to go back to their work,&rdquo; Nyokabi said.