Every seasoned entrepreneur agrees to the importance of trust in business. Transactions go smoothly when the parties involved feel they can count on each other&rsquo;s commitment, otherwise, people walk away. The need to feel comfortable and confident about business decisions is essential. And this is the salesperson&rsquo;s first job: instill trust in the heart of customers.In my opinion, people will say &ldquo;no&rdquo; until they cross the trust threshold. This is the conversion point. Where a prospect crosses the line from skepticism to agreement &ndash; they receive your offer and agree to terms. Until this threshold is crossed, no sales. Crossing the trust threshold is a process the entrepreneur should understand because each customer says &ldquo;no&rdquo; for various reasons. In turn, these reasons become obstacles to sales. Here are three common barriers and how to deal with them.Cost Barrier: It&rsquo;s too expensive; that&rsquo;s the logic. Once a customer feels like a product or service is out of reach, usually, they encounter a mental block. One way to help customers is to frame the product such that the value is clearly understood and appreciated. If my service would save you Ksh20million and my fee is Ksh1million, the price is negligible compared to the value. Your customer has to see that the value of your offering is far greater than the asking price. Also, an easy payment plan aids quick engagement.Function Barrier: Another barrier to sales is the question: will it work for me? People want the assurance that they are not wasting money on a product they won&rsquo;t enjoy. In this case, testimonials help. The entrepreneur has to show how others have benefited from their offering. The seller has to showcase satisfied, happy customers in order for prospects to lower their guards. When someone like us endorses a product, we&rsquo;re willing or likely to try it.Timing Barrier: How many times have you heard a prospective client tell you, &ldquo;not now&rdquo;? This is the timing barrier. The customer is in no rush to commit. Here, it&rsquo;s the entrepreneur&rsquo;s job to educate the client on the need for the product, especially when they have blind spots.Find ways to show them what they are not seeing or don&rsquo;t know. With further insight, urgency for the offering could grow, leading to a sale. Now, customers appreciate it when entrepreneurs take the time to properly educate them. It shows you have their interest at heart and when this message gets across, a sale is likely.Twitter: @SamuelMpamugoBlog: theyouideology.com