I&rsquo;ll start with a confession.I don&rsquo;t like SUVs. They&rsquo;re bulky, massive, lumps of steel on the road, which have only one occupant [most of the time]. That&rsquo;s a lot of wasted space. Moving all that mass around takes a lot of power, and fuel, so they tend to go through fuel at a frightening pace without a commensurate payoff in performance.And yet, they are an increasingly popular vehicle option on our roads.Clients love them for their size, the brand in some cases, the ride height, and their vast interior space.Companies love them for their cash flow. Just ask Porsche. Before the Cayenne came along, its cash flow, while solid, wasn&rsquo;t stellar. A decade after the launch of the Cayenne, Porsche was one of the most profitable car makers in Europe.BEHOLD, THE CATEnter, Jaguar, with the F-Pace. It&rsquo;s a handsome brute, in the flesh. That blunt front end may not be to everyone&rsquo;s taste, but there&rsquo;s no mistaking it for anything else on the road. Bright LED daytime running lights work frame the front grille, and offset the deep voids on either side. The intercoolers need those to work their magic, especially if you get the 3-liter turbo-diesel version. You will want that engine in this car, believe me. More on that later, however.The interior&rsquo;s a decent place to be in too. The roof, and all pillars are lined in lush alcantara. What plastics are visible seem to be hard wearing and should withstand a couple of years of rough use [think of the kids jumping in with all the dust and mud from a hard day&rsquo;s work at school]. It certainly isn&rsquo;t the old Jaguar brand, with acres of wood paneling and leather all over the place. Far from it. Seats are heavily bolstered on the side, and have electric adjustment, too, so even short drivers will be able to hustle this vehicle around without any problems with visibility. For your money, JLR throws quite a lot of kit at you. Want a full-length moon roof? Check. If you&rsquo;re 6-foot plus though, headroom at the back may be a bit compromised, but you&rsquo;ll have sufficient leg room.For Kenyan buyers, it&rsquo;s a toss-up between the old infotainment system and the new one, with its 10&rdquo; touchscreen but to be honest, it doesn&rsquo;t really matter, especially for our market.The three 12 V power outlets throughout the car are a huge plus though, as are the USB ports in the centre console, and the slot for a 4G SIM card which will provide the data connection for an in-car hotspot, and the data services that come as standard.WHAT IS IT LIKE TO DRIVE ?Driving&rsquo;s always the fun part, isn&rsquo;t it? All wheel drive and eight-speed automatic gearboxes are standard for this market, regardless of the model you pick.The F-Pace comes with three engine choices. The baby of the range, and the likely volume seller, is the 132 kW, two-litre turbo-diesel. It&rsquo;s a civilised power plant, and quiet. Not &lsquo;quiet&rsquo; as in quiet for a diesel, it really is pretty quiet. You&rsquo;ll hear the usual diesel clatter from the engine bay at startup if you&rsquo;re looking for it, but once you&rsquo;re inside and on the move, it just gets along with doing its job. This two-litre engine has 430 Nm of torque at its disposal to hustle around all 1700 kilos of the F-Pace.Fun begins with its bigger brothers, the three litre engines. You have a choice of two V6s, both with forced induction.The turbo-diesel variant makes less power [221 kW], but delivers more torque. 700 Nm of it to be precise, nearly double the petrol version. That&rsquo;s enough to rip out the entire Parliament building, and tow it across the border to Somalia as a present for some pretty unpleasant people, should you be so inclined.It&rsquo;s the logical option here. It&rsquo;s a diesel, so it&rsquo;ll not punch a Eurobond-sized hole in your monthly budget, and it has enough torque to hustle. Driving this model out of Johannesburg, once we were on the N1, it gathered speed at an impressive pace. The speed sneaks up on you, since the engine is relatively silent. Foot down, there&rsquo;s a distant hum somewhere in front of you, somewhere over that broad bonnet, and you&rsquo;re whizzing gracefully into the loving embrace of your next speeding ticket.Or bribe, as the case may be.Those of you who want vehicles to be exciting things and not a boring appliance [looking at you Toyota, Nissan], it&rsquo;s the other three litre V6 you want. Between its displacement, and a supercharger, this engine makes 280 kW, and 450 Nm of torque.Set the car in dynamic mode, which tells the gearbox to change gears much later in the rev range, firm up the suspension, and open up butterfly valves in the exhaust. Blip the throttle, and you get the most delicious bark coming out of the back end.BUT WHAT ABOUT THE RIDE HEIGHT, AND THOSE [GASP!] LOW PROFILE TIRES?Ah, yes. Those. All the versions I drove were shod in either 20&rdquo; or 22&rdquo; wheels. You get a full size spare as standard. None of that space-saving space nonsense here. While these were clearly road tires, they handled the off-road sections well. It was a brief blast off the tarmac for about 30 kilometers, but the gravel sections were relatively smooth. Yes, you can downsize to 18&rdquo; rims if you want to, but it will ruin the look of the car, more so with the need for much higher profile tires that will inevitably result.I&rsquo;ll give a definitive verdict on this after proper, long-term test on our hideous un-tarred roads, or broken ones like the section between Ngong and Kiserian, which is in an atrocious state.SO, WHAT&rsquo;S NOT TO LIKE?Rear view through that sculpted back end is tiny, at best. If you get one, make sure you have the reverse camera as part of the package. You&rsquo;ll need it. Helpfully, parking sensors are present at the front and the rear to help you figure it out. The brakes have very little room for modulation. Some drivers prefer this set up, others [yours truly], don&rsquo;t. Caliper engagement is virtually immediate, and it takes a bit of time to get a feel for how pedal travel provides how much braking.Steering&rsquo;s direct, although it may leave some purists feeling like its overly assisted. It&rsquo;s quite effective though, so this really, is a minor issue at best.VERDICT?For their first shot at making a crossover, Jaguar have done a commendable job here. Who knew Ian Callum [designer of the F-Pace, and quite a few Aston Martins], would have made an SUV look good, and drive this well?In fact, the only real question you face is whether you&rsquo;d settle for the F-Pace over her rivals, the VW cousins of Audi Q5 and the Porsche Macan, and the other German contender, the BMW X3.