Two ODM governors yesterday bashed Jubilee administration over the high cost of living.Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his Nairobi counterpart Evans Kidero sad they will ensure their leader Raila Odinga becomes President next year.The Mombasa governor promised to lead Raila&rsquo;s countrywide rallies, including in Jubilee strongholds.&ldquo;Raila has nurtured me since I joined politics in 2004 and I am now strong enough to support him. I have led these rallies from Mombasa, Nairobi and Eldoret,&rdquo; Joho said. &ldquo;They [Jubilee] stole our win in 2007 and 2013, but this time round it will be impossible.&rdquo;They said Jubilee has failed to deliver its promises to Kenyans. &ldquo;When you see me here, you see Raila. That is why I want to ensure he gets to State House in 2017. Jubilee has failed to tackle corruption, youth unemployment and poverty,&rdquo; Joho said at Masinde Muliro grounds in Mathare. Joho drummed up support for Raila, warning Deputy President William Ruto to prepare to face him in the 2022 presidential race.&ldquo;I want to tell Ruto that Raila is not in his league. Ruto has been telling us they will put our house [Cord] in order if we don&rsquo;t. I want to tell him I will meet him one on one in 2022,&rdquo; he said.Joho, who is also ODM deputy leader, asked governors to remain firm in the party until Raila ascends to power.He urged supporters to apply for national IDs and register in large numbers as voters to remove President Uhuru Kenyatta from power.Kidero said he supports Raila&rsquo;s fourth presidential bid and is still in ODM. He told off Water CS Eugene Wamalwa, saying he is an outsider who does not understand city politics and problems facing residents.Kidero threatened to sue the national government, which he accused of not clearing the county government&rsquo;s bills amounting to billions of shillings. &ldquo;The national government owes my government Sh69 billion in parking and license fees among others. We have gone to court but it has failed to pay. I have instructed my lawyers, including James Orengo, to return to court,&rdquo; he said.The more than 10 ODM legislators bashed Mathare MP Steven Kariuki for ditching the party and joining JP after he bagged the constituecy seat. Kidero demanded Kariuki to refund the Sh20 million ODM contributed for his campaigns in 2014. Shortly after the rally ended, police hurled teargas canisters at rowdy youth who had set fire to a pickup. The driver had allegedly knocked down a party supporter outside the grounds.