Former Moi University VC Richard Mibey has officially handed over to&nbsp;Laban Ayiro amid controversy and protests by governors and MPs over the appointment. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago and&nbsp; Elgeyo Marakwet's Alex Tolgos &nbsp;led politicians on Tuesday in a protest at the&nbsp; university, &nbsp;demanding that professor Isaac Kosgey be installed as VC Mandago,&nbsp;said they wanted Kosgey&nbsp;appointed as he&nbsp;"topped recruitment interviews"&nbsp; [AUDIO] Two governors, MPs storm Moi University over new 'outsider' VC Ayiro But Ayiro took over in a ceremony at the Eldoret university on Wednesday and will serve in acting capacity for three months. "I accept this huge&nbsp;responsibility&nbsp;of acting VC. I need your support to carry out the responsibilities from where Mibey left," he said. He pledged his support for the institution &nbsp;and&nbsp;said he will put things in order while awaiting the hiring of a substantive VC."I will do what I can until the new VC comes to office," said the new acting vice chancellor who had been serving as acting deputy vice-chancellor in charge of planning. Ayiro was appointed by&nbsp; Education CS Fred Matiang'i following the end of Mibey's 10-year term on Monday. Read:&nbsp; Prof Laban Ayiro appointed acting Moi University vice-chancellorDuring the protest,&nbsp;Mandago said they would stop the university's graduation ceremony on Friday if the appointment did not take place. But earlier today,&nbsp;Moi University Council Chairman Jenesio Kinyamario said the&nbsp;graduation ceremony will go on as planned. Two Kakamega MPs condemned Mandago, Tolgos and the other North Rift politicians they stormed into the university with.Others who took part in the protest were MPs Oscar Sudi (Kapseret), Sila Tiren (Moiben), James Bett (Kesses) and Uasin Gishu county assembly speaker Isaac Terer. MPs Savula and Wangwe termed their move primitive and said it did not promote the unity that is needed in Kenya. Savula told the Star by phone that it heightened tribalism and could create tension ahead of next year's elections.&ldquo;It is hypocrisy of the highest order for Jubilee leaders claiming to unite Kenyans through a party to stop another Kenyan from leading a national institution just because he is a Luhya,&rdquo; he said. He said Luhyas have a right, just like any other Kenyans, to occupy any positions should they meet the requirements.Wangwe urged Deputy President William Ruto to tame Mandago and Tolgos. &ldquo;They are from the DP&rsquo;s backyard yet the language they are speaking is anti-unity," he said. "We are watching what is happening and shall not make any move until we see action from him on the manner in which his people are treating our professionals."Wangwe said the North Rift leaders' actions contravened the law.&nbsp;&nbsp;The law requires that at least 30 per cent of public positions in counties be held by people from other counties. A National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC) report showed no public university had complied with the law. &nbsp;