Kenya Police believe their humiliation by Kenya Defence Forces in Thika was only a temporary setback and have promised to reclaim their familiar position at Machakos&rsquo; Mulu Mutisia grounds which plays host to the fourth and penultimate round of the BAK national league.The league starts today with preliminary matches, followed by semis tomorrow and finals on Saturday. Police head coach George &lsquo;Foreman&rsquo; Onyango has been bantering over Police&rsquo;s dominance and assured his fans they will make up for the 9-point deficit which saw the soldiers cling to the summit of the SportPesa-sponsored competition after the Thika leg. &ldquo;Standards have been set this time around and only the sky&rsquo;s the limit,&rdquo; he said. Foreman, a former Commonwealth Games gold medalist, has attributed their third leg defeat to what he termed as &lsquo;unfair&rsquo; disqualification of their super-heavyweight Simon Kimani and injuries of three key players. Kimani was disqualified for punching the match referee after he stopped the match.&ldquo;We now have a full strength team with all the injured boxers back in action. Shafie (Bakari) is back at light-fly after injury and so are Maurice Ochieng (flyweight) and bantamweight Martin Odour,&rdquo; Foreman said.Kenya Defence Forces have been shaping up at their showground base in Jamhuri Park under the tutelage of former international Sammy Magima. The soldiers will field Olympian Nick Okoth at lightweight, Simon Mulinge (fly), bantamweight Isaac Meja formerly from Nairobi, Victor Odhiambo (welterweight), Elly Ajowi (heavy) and Frederic Ramogi (super-heavy). Prisons under the watchful eye of All Africa Games gold medalist Maurice Maina &lsquo;Kawata&rsquo; will hinge their hopes on flyweight Harrison Mathuku and Olympian Aziz Ali at heavyweight. All has not been well with 1999 champions Kenya Prisons since the departure of longstanding international Daniel Shisia, who is past competition age and Rayton Okwiri who currently plies his trade in the AIBA Pro Boxing (APB) ranks. Prisons have also had to contend with poor financial backing from their sponsors, which is threatening to wind up one of Kenya&rsquo;s best boxing outfits.&ldquo;We are still awaiting for a word from our sponsors. We are not quite sure of our participation in Machakos but whichever way, our team is fully prepared,&rdquo; said Maina.The warders will not field a boxer in middleweight and super heavyweight classes following the injury of James Ominde and Shisia&rsquo;s retirement.Others notable names in Prisons team include welterweight William Kamau, bantamweight Jacob Kimani, lightweight Anthony Bugi and heavyweight Aziz Ali.The league has also attracted Coast Combined, Kisumu, Nakuru, Kentrak and Kenyatta National Hospital among others.The league programme for Machakos will kick off with the early morning medical and weigh-in today. The draw will be announced at 11am followed by preliminary matches at 2pm. Like the Thika leg, Machakos will also be on open air. The league has already been to Mombasa, Kisumu and Thika. The last leg will be held in Nakuru in November.