Deputy President William Ruto heads to Kisii today as he seeks to popularise the Jubilee Party. He will lay a foundation stone at the Ibeno Medical Training College, then preside over a funds drive and a rally at Nyansira Secondary School, Nyaribari Chache MP Richard Tong&rsquo;i told the Star. &ldquo;This is Ruto&rsquo;s first visit to the area since the launch of the Jubilee Party, so we expect politics to dominate the two functions. But the main reason why he is coming is to lay the foundation stone and raise funds for the college,&rdquo; Tong&rsquo;i said. Communications secretary at the DP&rsquo;s office David Mugonyi confirmed the visit. Tong&rsquo;i said the Kisii community should support Jubilee and vote for President Uhuru Kenyatta. &ldquo;The government has done a lot in terms of development. More projects are lined up in Kisii county and that is why I want the Kisiis to support the Jubilee government,&rdquo; he said. Tong&rsquo;i said leaders allied to the Kisii Unity Caucus led by Senator Chris Obure of ODM and Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi, who faces disciplinary action by ODM, will attend the functions. Ruto has made more than 10 visits to the Kisii and Nyamira counties since he came into office in 2013. His last visit was in July, when he launched the Last Mile Connectivity project and opened the Agriculture Society of Kenya show at Kisii town.Some Kisii leaders early this year visited Ruto&rsquo;s Sugoi home and pledged the community&rsquo;s support for the Jubilee administration. Another delegation from Nyamira visited his official residence in Karen, Nairobi. Lawyer and political analyst Edward Begi said Ruto&rsquo;s frequent visits to Kisii are aimed at eating into Cord leader Raila Odinga&rsquo;s stronghold. &ldquo;In the last election, Jubilee struggled to get 50+1 votes. It is targeting Kisii and other areas that seem friendlier. However, it will be a herculean task if they don&rsquo;t fulfill their promises,&rdquo; the Kisii-based advocate said. In Kisii, Raila had 236, 831 ( 68 per cent), while Uhuru garnered 95,596 ( 27 per cent) of the votes.