Kenya15&rsquo;s team is set to have a 10-day training camp in Cape Town, South Africa in November.Team manager Wangila Simiyu said they will be hosted by Western Province and will undergo specialised skill sessions with emphasis on scrummaging and other facets of the game .The 10-day trip may see the team play a friendly match or two against one of the teams in Cape Town. &ldquo;It will be an important exercise for us to go to Cape Town to get a feel of a professional environment and see where we are as a team in terms of capacity and preparation,&rdquo; added Simiyu.Western Province have been great supporters of Kenyan rugby in the past four years since the appointment of Simbas&rsquo; coach Jerome Paarwater in 2012 . The team also had a training stint in Cape Town during the 2014 Vodacom Cup, where they finished seventh.Simiyu said the four nations tournament in Hong Kong, which the Simbas had been invited has not been confirmed. &ldquo;We are awaiting for confirmation from the union and organisers of the event so that we can resume training for the tournament,&rdquo; he added.Kenya Rugby Union has also sent an invite to the South Africa Rugby Union to play in the 2017 Curry Cup.Simiyu said he hopes for inclusion in the event as it will give Kenya a good platform to build on qualification to the 2019 Rugby World Cup in Japan. &ldquo;We came very close to qualification at the last edition and playing in the Currie Cup will harden us and give us the opportunity to play some of the best provincial sides in the continent,&rdquo; he added.Kenya are ranked 22nd in the world after finishing second in the Confederation of Africa Rugby Championship 1A. They posted wins over Uganda and Zimbabwe to finish second to winners Namibia and also got wins over Hong Kong and Brazil to move into the top 25 of world rugby.&ldquo;Simiyu said the next goal is to move into the top 20. &ldquo;Our target now will be to move into the top 20 with sponsorship money now coming from SportPesa and resources for the national team being better than what they were before. We are now in better position to challenge the other countries above us,&rdquo; added Simiyu.Elsewhere, Strathmore trio of Eric Kioko, John Okwara and lock Jared Owinyo have joined Quins from the start of the 2016 -2017 Kenya Cup season.The trio will be handed their debuts at the season opening Impala floodlight tournament this weekend at the Impala Club. Quins&rsquo; team manager Jimmy Mnene said the three will bolster their front row in what will be long season. &ldquo;They are very good addition to our front line and they will help us a lot in this long league. We already have great players up there and this will be an advantage to us,&rdquo; added Mnene.