A Kenyan actor stands the chance of bagging a lucrative hosting gig with an international TV station. Charlie Karumi, 25, is an actor and entertainer who has been selected as a semi-finalist for the TLC&rsquo;s NEXT Great Presenter Competition, from more than 1500 audition hopefuls. The winner will feature in a special once off documentary and win a luxury holiday for two courtesy of Sun International.&ldquo;I feel thrilled to have been selected. TLC is arguably the biggest and most successful lifestyle entertainment channel - it&rsquo;s the big league, and when you get a chance to play in the big league, you take it and run!&rdquo; says Charlie. &ldquo;Out of the many people who sent their videos in from all over the continent, they picked little ol&rsquo; Charlie to be among the final 13. I always thought 13 was an unlucky number&hellip;guess I was wrong!&rdquo; Charles said . Now, all roads lead to Cape Town for Boot Camp, as Charlie along with 12 contestants from all over Africa aim to turn their 90-second video audition into their dream job. During the four-day Boot Camp, they will be put through their presenting paces by the judges and industry experts as they undertake screen tests, performance coaching, fashion styling, brand and media training to see who really has what it takes to be a host on the lifestyle and entertainment channel. &ldquo;When it comes to entertaining, for me it&rsquo;s all systems go! I&rsquo;ve been an actor for a couple of years so that&rsquo;s helped me get accustomed to life in front of the camera; the lens and I are pretty much best friends now. I also host my own YouTube channel &lsquo;Chromey&rsquo; which has taught me a lot about spontaneity and connecting with an audience,&rdquo; explains Charlie. At Boot Camp, it will be down to the star-studded line-up of experts which includes; radio and TV personality, Thando Thabethe; Head of Content at MultiChoice, Aletta Alberts; editor of ZAlebs.com, Zee Dladla; celebrity publicist and communications strategist, Jarred Doyle and VP of Channels for Discovery Networks CEEMEA, Lee Hobbs to choose the Top 3 finalists. Then, in the end it will be up to the TLC audience to decide who should be crowned the winner and travel to London to film the brand new series, TLC&rsquo;s Most Extreme.