Hassan Joho&nbsp;will lead a two-day rally in Kisumu this weekend "to educate our supporters and Kenyans in general on why Jubilee must not get another term in office". The Mombasa Governor said the journey to make Uhuru Kenyatta a one-term President began in Mombasa and&nbsp; Nairobi, and will flow through the country. Joho, who is ODM deputy leader, said Uhuru must not go back to office for "dividing the country down the middle, between supporters and non-supporters". "Jubilee does not deserve a second term because of its deliberate policy of economic sabotage. It has impoverished communities and regions that it perceives to be non-supportive," he said. Joho further accused the Jubilee government of "stealing from the people and making new promises on top of old ones&nbsp; amid escalated cases of corruption"."The President is unaware of what Kenyans are going through. If he is aware he does not care. That is why he does not understand why other people are not eating meat while he does," the Governor told the media. [VIDEO] Get your house in order, let Jubilee feast on 'meat', Uhuru tells Raila Read: Uhuru's meat talk shows Jubilee out of touch with poor Kenyans - GumboThe Governor will tour the county&nbsp;to drum up support for ODM leader Raila Odinga. He will meet party delegates and ODM MCAs, and conduct roadshows in the lakeside town which is Raila's political backyard. He told a press conference at the ODM leader's Capitol Hill office in Nairobi on Tuesday that the rallies will culminate in the Kisumu declaration ahead of the 2017 general election.Read: Raila Odinga's speech at ODM's '10 at 10' anniversary rally[VIDEO] Jubilee, Cord in popularity contest in NairobiSome of the issues ODM leaders have lined up to address in Kisumu are the importation of cheap fish from China and&nbsp; challenges facing the rice sector in the Lake Victoria basin. "The Chinese now export cheap fish to Kenya at the expense of fishermen in the country. The same is with rice being imported from Pakistan in exchange for tea exports. That is economic sabotage," Joho stated.The Mombasa county boss was with Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma and Senator Anyang' Nyong'o.