Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto has dismissed the Jubilee Party, saying it will disintegrate after the elections.He said Deputy President William Ruto cannot be Kenya&rsquo;s President because of &ldquo;his trait&rdquo;. The former governors&rsquo; council chairman said the DP overlooks other players in politics because of his &ldquo;know it all&rdquo; attitude.Rutto described the DP as a dictator who is using his position to amass wealth. &ldquo;Ruto has been busy burning bridges and will not have anyone to fall back on. He has been trampling on everyone. Everyone is complaining,&rdquo; he said in an exclusive interview at his Nairobi office.Rutto said the relationship between Ruto and President Uhuru Kenyatta is meant to ensure that Uhuru wins the next elections so he could control the civil service and the security docket alone. He said after the next elections, Uhuru will edge out Ruto and run the government alone. &ldquo;After the elections, he will have no gravitas,&rdquo; the governor said.Rutto said Central Kenya will abandon the Jubilee Party soon after the 2017 elections. He added, &ldquo;There will be no Jubilee in 2018. It will be as dead as PNU. It will be as dead as Narc.&rdquo;He said Uhuru will have no political clout to rally Central Kenya behind Ruto in case he serves a second term. &ldquo;Mount Kenya will identify another candidate for the top seat before the DP celebrates and they will not hide it,&rdquo; Rutto said. &ldquo;It will be a joke to say they will support Ruto. No. It won&rsquo;t happen, it can&rsquo;t happen, it will never happen.&rdquo;The CCM leader said the statements by nominated Senator Paul Njoroge and Governor William Kabogo and the responses to their utterances are enough indication Central Kenya does not feel obliged to back Ruto in 2022.&ldquo;It is exactly the way it is. It is common knowledge. If they could not vote for retired president Daniel Moi, Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka or any other person, how will they vote for William?&rdquo; he said.Rutto criticised Uhuru and Ruto for using government apparatus to intimidate the governors. &ldquo;They are taking us back to where we left 20 years after multipartism. We can&rsquo;t be frogmarched into one basket called Jubilee like robots,&rdquo; he said.