Thirty four hockey and basketball players, who were selected for the 2017 Brookside-Strathmore University scholarship, will report to camp in December in Nairobi.The students were scouted and selected at the just concluded Brookside East Africa School Games in Eldoret. Players who will have impressed, and also manage to attain a minimum of A-(minus) or its equivalent in their &lsquo;O&rsquo; level exams will be awarded the scholarship.Peter Wasonga, Brookside Dairy&rsquo;s marketing manager urged the boys and girls to take advantage of the boot camp to sharpen their skills. &ldquo;The camp will provide the players with an opportunity to horn their skills further in the two games, before a final selection is done to pick beneficiaries of the sports scholarship,&rdquo; intimated Wasonga. &ldquo;Our strategy is to develop both the academic and sporting prowess of each identified student as we train them to become all-rounded individuals,&rdquo; added Wasonga.Meanwhile, on another scholarship scheme, Strathmore University scouted players for other team sports in the institution too. Strathmore, who lines up current and former coaches attached to different national team also selected players in volleyball and handball for next year&rsquo;s intake in July. Whereas the Brookside scholarship cut off grade is an &lsquo;A-&rsquo; (minus), Strathmore&rsquo;s scheme admits players, who have attained a minimum of B (plain) or its equivalent (in the case of non Kenyans). A player must also score at least a C+ (plus), or its equivalent in both mathematics and English. Paul Ochieng, the dean of students at Strathmore clarified that each player only has one chance to land a Brookside scholarship failure to which he or she will not be placed on the varsity&rsquo;s program. Those listed&mdash;Hockey Girls: Lucy Wacera (Kerugoya), Dalvin Ooga, Barbara Atigo, Lynn Ayuma (Tigoi), Ivin Anyango, EA School Games MVP Melda Awuor (Sinyolo) and Doreen Asimwa (Kakungulu SS Uganda); Hockey Boys: Laurence Okongo, Cliff Omari, Job jerry Ogaso (St. Anthony&rsquo;s Kitale), Justine Ng&rsquo;etich, Collins Mukarani (Friends School Kamusinga), Boniface Muna Onyango and Wilson Raburu (Maseno); Basketball Boys: Kasasa Gideon (Kibuli) David Deng (Buddo school), Gilbert Nijimbere (ETG Nyakabiga, Burundi) Irumva Heretier, Nijimere Remit, (Baptise, Rwanda), Martin Buluma Ouma, David Ouma and Kennedy Ogeno (Upper Hill); Basketball girls: Ivy Opicho, Lavender Miewe (Buruburu), Seline Migunde and Nancy Opiyo (Barchando), Damaris Riana, Dedee Shisia, Naomi Bosibori, Agenta Kambua and Lilian Atieno Odera (Kaya Tiwi), Hope Akello and Vicky Akello (St. Mary&rsquo;s Kitende, Uganda) and Melissa Nalwanga (Nabisunsa SS, Uganda).