The national women&rsquo;s under-23 volleyball team has been trimmed to 17 ahead of the Confederation of African Volleyball set for October 20-30 in Nairobi.Kenya Commercial Bank&rsquo;s outside hitter Milgrin Lutubula, Prisons Kenya left attacker Irene Mbula and Bungoma County&rsquo;s middle block Praxedes Wekesa were dropped from the provisional squad of 21.However, Kenya&rsquo;s former youth international setter Lilian Kavinya ceased to be out of the picture of the team since she has never reported to camp for the last five weeks of training. The team moved to the Safaricom Indoor Arena, Kasarani but still on non-residential training. Head coach Catherine Mabwi said the training is taking shape and preparations have to go a notch higher as the event draws closer.&ldquo;The team is in good shape and the girls have already jelled well. Training intensifies as we inch closer to the tournament. We want to field a very strong team that will equally compete other African sides for the top honors,&rdquo; noted Mabwi, a former Kenyan international outside hitter.The competitions will qualify top two teams to the World under-23 championships. The countries which have confirmed participation so far are&mdash; Egypt, Tunisia, Senegal, Botswana, Rwanda and hosts Kenya.&ldquo;Kavinya has never reported to camp and we have not heard from her and consequently, we have had to leave her out of our plan in the team,&rdquo; added Mabwi who was over the weekend appointed as a member of Kenya Volleyball National Executive Committee as the deputy secretary general.The position fell vacant following the resignation of Evans Wasike as SG, and his then assistant Ben Juma got elevated. In accordance with the gender rule on KVF&rsquo;s new constitution, KVF Prisons branch chairperson Rose Muturi and Aisha Otieno, deputy organising secretary KVF Lower Lake branch were also co-opted into the NEC.Muturi becomes vice chairperson (gender minority), whereas Otieno is NEC member. Under the KVF president Waithaka Kioni are deputy president Martin Makokha and two vice chairpersons&mdash;Kipkemboi Sirma and Moturi.Squad&mdash;Setters: Veronica Tanui (Pipeline), Faith Imodia (St. Paul&rsquo;s University). Left attackers: Doreen Marani (KCB), Edna Mwombe (Pipeline), Leah Okumu (Strathmore). Middle blockers Anne Lowem, Shyrine Jepkemboi (Prisons), Synaida Yvonne, Beldine Akinyi (Pipeline), Pauline Wafula (KCB), Maurine Okiru (Nairobi Water). Right attackers: Damaris Jepkorom (Nairobi Water), Lillian Leilei, Yvonne Wavinya (Prisons), Maurine Wekesa (Kenyatta University). Liberos: Celestine Nyongesa (Pipeline) and Sarah Were (unattached).