Former Inspector General David Kimaiyo&rsquo;s announcement on Sunday that he will run for Elgeyo Marakwet senator has sparked a war of words between him and incumbent Kipchumba Murkomen.Speaking at Kapsowar Catholic Church, Kimaiyo hinted he could run for President in 2022. He appeared to blame Murkomen and Deputy President William Ruto for his resignation from the IG post, and for being sacked from the Kenya Airports Authority chairman job.Kimaiyo said some Rift Valley politicians, whom he did not name, &ldquo;witch-hunted&rdquo; him out. He said the politicians accused him of being incompetent, forcing him to resign. &ldquo;How can somebody say I am incompetent, yet I have served diligently for more than three decades and without integrity issues?&rdquo; Kimaiyo said. He said some regional leaders have only been in politics for a few years &ldquo;but now brag as if they know everything about the government very well&rdquo;.Murkomen hit back at Kimaiyo yesterday, terming him a &ldquo;pathological liar&rdquo; .&ldquo;I do not know if he has a memory problem because when he resigned as IG he made it clear that he had sat and consulted with the President before quitting. He should tell us if that President he sat with was me or DP Ruto,&rdquo; he said.He said Kimaiyo decided to join politics on a revenge mission. &ldquo;Kimaiyo says he is a Christian so he should tell us the truth instead of changing what he told the public when he quit. He should also tell us if he is envious of the current IG who is also from Elgeyo Marakwet county,&rdquo; Murkomen said.Kimaiyo said he is consulting on which party&rsquo;s ticket to seek. Sources say he could run as an independent candidate or on the Kanu or CCM party tickets.&ldquo;My record speaks for itself. I believe I was a victim of a political witch-hunt. If elected, I will protect everybody&rsquo;s interests against injustices and conspiracy by individuals who want to curtail their services,&rdquo; he said. Murkomen said he had no powers to force Kimaiyo to resign. Some Marakwet business professionals have blamed Murkomen for Kimaiyo&rsquo;s exit. They cited his comments against the former IG when there were calls for him to resign over laxity in the police force.Murkomen said he has performed well and needs another term to complete projects he started. He said he has raised the profile of Elgeyo Marakwet nationally and wants to focus on improving education standards. &ldquo;I am very proud of my record in the last four years. I have the energy and willingness to do more for my people,&rdquo; Murkomen said.He is a key Ruto ally and defender of the Jubilee government. Murkomen said he wants to improve the lives of residents, especially the youth, whom he said need to be encouraged to pursue their dreams.