Building a successful business isn&rsquo;t easy. It takes grit, strategy and persistence. The entrepreneur must learn to navigate the ups and downs of commerce. To aid this process, one skill to have is the ability to negotiate &ndash; the art of balancing your interests with that of others in the bid to create a win-win situation. Truth is: good negotiators get more wins in the business arena. Here are a few tips to help you improve your negotiation skills. Set the stage: In a negotiation, people discuss interests. Each party comes to get the best deal possible. One common mistake people make is to engage negotiations with only their interests in mind. They give little or no thought to the interests of the other party. This attitude puts you in a weak position. Before you enter a negotiation, first do your homework. Who are you negotiating with? What do they really want? Ask yourself key questions and review the procedure from different angles. Do as much research on the other party as you can. Try to understand where they&rsquo;re coming from. This will increase your chances of success. Frame terms: Good research equips you to frame your proposal in a way that the other party will likely accept and have you prepared for possible objections. Effective negotiators spend considerable time thinking about the needs of the other in order to find the sweet spot &ndash; the place where interests meet. Consequently, they frame their offer in order to make both parties happy. Creative exchange: You&rsquo;ve set the stage and framed your terms. Now, you&rsquo;re in the room and talks begin. You go back and forth as each party works at finding common ground. In this situation, the quality of your preparation will determine your confidence and creativity. Here, you can&rsquo;t just wing it. Your readiness is tested. The former British Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, Ernest Bevin, said: &ldquo;The first thing to decide before you walk into any negotiation is what to do if the offer fellow says no.&rdquo; Creative exchange means you have properly done your homework, and at the same time are ready for anything because in reality, a negotiation can take any turn. But, be prepared. Don&rsquo;t enter the room on a wishful note. Effective negotiators understand the complexities and power of interests. They are skillful at protecting the other parties&rsquo; interests as they secure their own. Overall, learning is their focus &ndash; that&rsquo;s how they increase their wins.Twitter: @SamuelMpamugoBlog: theyouideology.com