David Esseli Simiyu believes that if Kenya was a proper society managed by an honest ruling elite, then he would be the best presidential material. The 58-year paediatrician and Tongaren MP, says the country has been mismanaged and most of the decisions are done at the spur of the moment with no back up evidence. “It is only after I joined politics that I got concerned with the high rate if malaria in the country,” he says justifying the government’s half-hearted measures to address serious problems that confront the country. The legislator regrets that despite the high rate of the disease the country has maintained a one dimensional ineffectual approach to treating the disease. “Using nets has been popularized by the state, unfortunately it is not the only solution,” he says. “we need to engage in a high level fumigation exercises to kill the mosquito.” He says over reliance on nets is counter productive because the vector has a way of getting through the nets and cause the disease. In his second term as an MP, Esseli first joined politics in 2007 when he won the Kimilili parliamentary seat at the first attempt, beating the much-heralded, then cabinet Minister, Mukhisa Kituyi. For him, shifting from the lecture hall to politics was not hard. He hails from a political family. His father served as a councillor in Bungoma county for ten years, rising to become the vice chair of the Bungoma county council for another ten years. Besides, his uncle Shadrack Okova served as MP for Lurambi during the Kanu days. “it should not surprise anyone that I am in politics besides I joined politics because I believe that I can help improve the lives of our people,” he states. Esseli has served in the military, rising to the rank of Major: taught at the University of Nairobi, rising to the position of senior lecturer: and he is also an accomplished research scientist whose works have been published widely in peer reviewed journals. He enrolled in the Regimental Medical Officers (RMOs) but was among the first specialist cadets who joined the military after the change in the system of training that required cadets to pass out with other servicemen. The legislator is of firm view safeguards are important within the free market economy to balance the needs of profiteers and the need for quality service. “Health care and education have become too expensive and families are falling into bankruptcy in desperate search of quality health care and education.” IN FIVE MINUTES Excelling in a diversity of careers before politics 1958: Born at Kimilili Hospital in the then Bungoma district. 1972-1977: Nairobi School 1978-1984: University of Nairobi, studied Medicine 1984-1985: Intern, Kenyatta National Hospital 1988 -1991: Postgraduate studied, University of Nairobi 1991-1993: Armed Forces Medical Services , Forces Memorial Hospital 1994 – 2005: Lecturer, Department of Paediatrics, University of Nairobi. 2005 – 2007: Senior lecturer , Department of Paediatrics, UoN 2007: Contested Kimilili parliamentary seat, won on Ford Kenya ticket 2013: Elected MP for Tiongaren after the split of Kimilili constituency QUOTES 2013: “Nearly a fortnight ago the UN General Assembly reaffirmed its full support for the ICC and Kenya should not take lightly the resolutions and commitment of the world body,” 2015: “Our governor promised the President that he would get more votes from Bungoma in the next General Election after granting Kibabii University a charter and launching water and roads projects. Let him (Mr Lusaka) remember that he doesn’t own any votes, votes belong to voters and only they can decide who to vote in as the President,” 2016: “I respect media freedom and the freedom that we have allowed our media to enjoy. I will protect them with whatever I can to ensure that they continue to enjoy that freedom. However, they also must exercise some responsibility.  They know very well what our Standing Orders say.  They cannot go public on a Report that has not been made public by this House. It is up to this House to ensure that media houses exercise restraint. We cannot just let them get away with that because we support media freedom.”