The Kajiado assembly unanimously passed a motion on Thursday to summon all county executives and chief officers over an expenditure dispute that has stalled development.Members say the "heartless" disagreement on who should authorise payment has hurt medical services, payment of contractors and infrastructure development.Oloosirkon-Sholinke MCA Daniel Kanchori sponsored a motion seeking to question the county government on why it has not tendered any projects, despite the assembly approving this year s county budget of Sh7 billion in June.Kanchori told the assembly that despite it approving a budget of Sh1.5 billion for the health sector, the county executive has not bought drugs for public hospitals. Due to poor management and planning on the part of the executive all the public hospitals have been run down. The people of this county are suffering as they seek medical assistance from private hospitals, he said.Kanchori said there has emerged a cold war between the county executives and chief officers, with the count ministers insisting that they must approve all tenders before chief officers release the cash for expenditure. The county ministers have now given themselves authority to incur expenditure against the government rules. Chief officers by law are the ones authorised to incur expenditure. Everything has ground to a halt, he said. Endonet-Lenkisim MCA Benjamin Kool said contractors who have finished their work have not been paid because of the stalemate. Only politically correct contractors have been paid their money because of the governor s intervention, but the rest of the suppliers and contractors who provided services since January this year have not been paid, he said.Ongata Rongai MCA Mwathe Pere said it is disheartening that the executive has not tendered for services from June. Our roads are the worst in the country. No road is passable after the ongoing rains and yet the executive is sitting on public money. This is heartless on the side of the executive. We want them to come here and explain all this to us, he said.Temporary speaker Elizabeth Sopiato said the matter is grave and requires immediate action. She urged members to hasten the questioning of the county executives and chief officers so that the county can know what is ailing the executive.After the motion was passed the assembly took a two months recess up to February.