It s just over two years since femcee Wangechi was involved in a ghastly road accident in Nairobi. The incident which happened on September 14th, 2014 came in as a shock to many. The Cardiac Arrest hit rapper and songwriter was in the company of her two best friends during the fateful night.Unfortunately, one of her friends, Tionna, was not lucky as she passed on as a result of the harrowing accident. Wangechi was admitted to ICU with serious injuries and her left side suffered temporary paralysis for a couple of months. She was eventually discharged from the hospital but had to undergo intense therapy (both physical and emotional) for her to recover from the life-changing trauma.She took her time recover at home and declined to speak about the unfortunate experiences publicly. This can be understood as she was probably hurting.Read: Rapper Wangechi looks back at the horrific car accident that almost killed herEventually, she opened up to the media about it after a prolonged period of time, but it is until now that she's been able to speak out about other details she didn't prefer to talk about before.In an exclusive interview with Word Is on Wednesday, Wangechi opened up to us about some of the things she has to live with as a result of the 2014 accident.Among the most intriguing revelations was that she can no longer play any musical instruments.For every artiste, playing any kind of a music instrument is a vital ingredient in one s career and development. So, it must be really painful for Wangechi to not be able to play her favourite instruments, including the guitar.She said: I can say that it hasn t been an easy journey for me since that accident. I can however say that I have recovered but not fully. "The accident drastically affected my music career in various ways. I have never told this to anyone before but it can amuse you if I told you that I can t play any music instrument. She continued, My left side, from the brain all the way to my feet was badly affected. "For example, I can t synchronise movements from my left hand with my right. My right side is too fast in doing things. "I can t even play the guitar or even dance in a synchronized manner. However, this has not limited her from doing what she knows best. This Friday, December 2, 2016, Wangechi will be releasing a new EP album. I haven t allowed the prevailing circumstances derail me from my work as an artiste. I am fresh from doing a campaign track for beer brand Tusker, which really paid me well. So, I am comfortable, she says.Read also: Rapper Wangechi now has the 'power to read'On Kenyan rappers who have mentioned her in diss tracks, Wangechi says that they aren't worth her time!She said: I can t even give them my two seconds. Of all those femcees who have mentioned me, none of them is at my level. "Dissing them back will only amount to giving them free but short-lived publicity. So, I am not bothered. Read also: Rapper Wangechi, Ali Kiba to record with Ne-Yo