ODM faces tough questions about fair nominations as some hopefuls accuse national chairman John Mbadi of endorsing preferred candidates.He is facing accusations from county chief aspirants Kisumu Deputy Governor Ruth Odinga, Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga, businessman Sammy Wakiaga and business consultant Enosh Bolo.Ruth wants to unseat Governor Jack Ranguma in Kisumu, while Bolo, Magwanga and Wakiaga will run against Awiti. Mbadi has denied accusations he uses his position to influence reelection of some leaders.He said he will support candidates chosen by the people. &ldquo;Let anybody accusing me produce evidence,&rdquo; the MP said. The Homa Bay governor aspirants said Mbadi is using his chairmanship to fight for Awiti&rsquo;s reelection.Wakiaga said they all belong to the party and should be treated equally during nominations. &ldquo;We all have ODM party life membership cards and nobody should be underrated at the expense of others,&rdquo; he said.Ruth said the Suba MP has been taking sides, which will hurt the nominations. &ldquo;The chairman should be non-partisan, neutral and independent when handling party affairs,&rdquo; she said.Ruth said Mbadi has been using his position to organise fundraisers in the constituency.She warned Mbadi against inviting governors he is perceived to supportduring the fundraisers. Last week, Mbadi hosted Ranguma and Awiti for a fundraiser. &ldquo;Mbadi should support party structures so that we can have free, fair and transparent nominations,&rdquo; Ruth said. &ldquo;As the chairman, he should focus on how best ODM can be made more vibrant.&rdquo;Ruth told Mbadi to concentrate on rebranding the party before 2017.&ldquo;Some governors, now close to Mbadi, have done nothing for ODMor developed their counties,&rdquo; Ruth said.She urged party secretary general Agnes Zani to punish officials found to be partisan.Ruth also wants politicians disqualified if they or their supporters engage in violence.&ldquo;Those behind violence should stop giving party leader Raila Odinga a hard time, because he is not supporting a particular candidate,&rdquo; she said.Raila has not endorsed any candidate for any position, she said.The party will vet all candidates, conduct opinion polls and subject the candidates to a vote. The most popular candidate will be handed the ODM nomination ticket.Raila&rsquo;s allies said he is doing everything to have credible primaries.Mbadi has been criticised for openly supporting individuals &mdash; partisanship that virtually all members oppose.Magwanga said Mbadi is a big letdown to the party. &ldquo;Raila is against fundraising conducted by DP William Ruto yet Mbadi has been hosting governors for harambees,&rdquo; he said. Magwanga questioned how the money being dished out by governors in harambees is accounted for.&ldquo;You cannot purport to support leaders who don&rsquo;t fight for the voters&rsquo; interest. Homa Bay remains backward in development since the inception of devolution,&rdquo; Magwanga said.On September 11, some youths said Mbadi should remain neutral and focus on uniting party members instead of causing divisions. They accused him of endorsing candidates. Mbadi has told the aspirants to sell their policies to voters instead blaming him. &ldquo;Let aspirants look for votes from supporters because we will campaign for whoever wins the party ticket for the next elections,&rdquo; he said. Mbadi told the party supporters to be wary of those who want to use &ldquo;the influenced party nominations&rdquo; as excuse for their own political benefits.