Three-time former champion John Karichu and Jeff Kubwa will be fighting to secure the runners up slot in the Grand Finale of the Kenya Golf Union (KGU) Golfer of the Year series at Nyali Club this weekend.Play will tee off at the par 71 course tomorrow through to Sunday and will feature a three-day 54-hole tournament of which 24 championship points will be at stake.Over 100 amateurs have signed up for the event, which will see the best golfers make the cut for the final round on Sunday. Kenneth Bollo of Royal Nairobi has the 2016 Goty title in the bag and his presence in the coast tour would be a mere formality.Focus though will be on who takes second position. Karichu, who has been shaping up at his home club in Limuru, exuded confidence that he would emerge top.&ldquo;I&rsquo;m going for nothing short of victory. My swing is good at the moment and closer to where I want it to be. Bollo has been solid in play this year and we will all have a good fight at the coast,&rdquo; said Karichu, who has been the Goty champion for the last three seasons. Bollo leads the 2016 log on 298 points which can not be surpassed by Kubwa and Karichu no matter what.Second is Kubwa on 245 followed by Karichu on 232. Samuel Njoroge of Railways is out of contention for second position and will be fighting to clinch third position. Njoroge is placed fourth on 213. The Goty series which teed off with Sigona Bowl in January has been to several clubs countrywide. Bollo has won four events thus far, including Sigona Bowl, Windsor and Muthaiga and has remained consistent through out the season. The National Strokeplay Championship was won by Alfred Nandwa of Railways while Sijan Shah racked up Match play honours.Unlike in the past when the event featured single figure golfers, the Nyali Open will be open to golfers playing off handicap 18 and under. This will hand club members the opportunity to grace one of the most popular amateur golf event in the country. Nyali Golf and Country Club captain Keli Muindi said this year&rsquo;s tournament has so far attracted golfers from across East Africa. There will be a cut after the first two rounds with the top 70 players making it to the final round on Day 3 on Sunday.The overall winner with the lowest gross score will carry home the coveted Nyali Open trophy.Tanzania will be sending a strong contingent of 20 players mostly from Dar-es-Salaam Gymkhana Club who will be led by Tanzania Sports Council chairman Dioniz Malinzi.Last year, the coveted trophy remained home courtesy of George Munyao. South Africa-based Mathew Wahome is in Mombasa at the moment and hopes to take the fight to his fellow single figure players.