It is the holiday season again, and with it comes family and friends, coupled with merriment and fun. However, there are cases where the hassle of preparing for the festivities becomes frustrating enough to mar the occasion. Here are some of the ways to make your festivities quite memorable:Scramble your travel plansOne of the most common things over this holiday is travelling, with most families going upcountry to celebrate Christmas with their extended family. As much as it is fun, it is time to scramble such plans. Instead of going to the village, try destinations that you have never been to. The best thing about this country is the numerous scenic places where families and friends can visit to celebrate the festivities. Only caution here is to do your due diligence to ensure that you are safe and that you have cash for all transactions and for emergencies. Remember to have fun!Stay IndoorsFor people who are not keen on hanging out with family and friends, spending time with yourself in the comfort of your cosy home is something to consider this Christmas. With the variety of films, TV shows and music albums released all through the year, you will be spoilt for choice over what to watch or listen to. You can also get yourself a number of books to read as you catch up with the bestsellers and your favourite authors or re-read that book you truly love. This could also be a perfect time to reconnect with yourself: do something you love like making plans for the New Year or sleeping or trying out that new recipe you have been planning to through the year.Play HostFor this Christmas period, you can open your doors to family and friends for a lunch or a dinner. This will require a bit of planning on your part, making sure that you have the meals prepared as per the preference of your guests. Depending on your guests, ensure that you also have fun activities for the children so that the parents can also relax and enjoy the holidays.The other option would be to take your friends and family out for dinner or lunch. Quite a number of restaurants have offers on meals and drinks that you can take advantage of.VolunteerChristmas is the season of giving: and what best way to do this than to give your time to the less privileged in the society. A variety of children&rsquo;s home and elder centres usually have events surrounding the season, that you can take part in. Bring your family, friends and even colleagues at work or school to make the season memorable to them and the beneficiaries.Party awayThe season comes with parties, concerts and nativity plays, among others. There is bound to be lots of people- new friends to make and old ones to reconnect with. If you are willing, you can put your acting skills to the test by taking part in a Christmas play or your vocal chords to task by singing Christmas Carols. If you are going to indulge in alcohol, drink responsibly and do not drink and drive&mdash;besides there are quite enough ride hailing services to call when you need to go home.Have fun; be responsible.Merry Christmas!