Whatever your political persuasion, the next election will have a winner and a loser. That is probably the only certain thing about that election. As to who will actually win, I can safely say nobody can tell. In the just concluded elections in America, the world woke up to the reality that what seems obvious isn t quite so simple in elections. Although we in Kenya will always have powerful disputations about the true outcome of our elections, the outcome can actually be predicted by carefully observing certain trends inherent in our voting patterns.THE CHARACTER OF KENYAN ELECTIONSEach election in Kenya is unique and has generally reflected the minds and the prevailing mood of the people at that time. The 2002 vote in which Uhuru Kenyatta was defeated, was largely a protest vote on the establishment. President Moi seemed to be extending his leadership through the young Uhuru. The theme of that election was Change. The charged 2007 vote was a protest against Kibaki s perceived failures or weaknesses. The Constitution was yet to be agreed upon and people felt that the existing one was hindering many things. Reduced to one word, the 2007 plebiscite was about Reform. The 2013 vote was a test-run of the new Constitution. It was largely clouded by uncertainty over the ICC and its implications now that the leading contenders for the Presidency were under its indictment. In fact the ICC delivered, inadvertently perhaps, the quietest election ever. Even the usual protests about rigging or better put irregularities , were handled in a more civil manner in court and not on the streets. There was a sense of Nationalism in that election. The next one could be anyone s guess, depending on what happens between now and August next year.THE COMING ELECTIONWe are going to the 2017 election a deeply polarized nation. All indicators show that the election will be a very close one. In trying to determine the factors that will play a key role in the next elections, we must understand that most predictions are doomed to fail because of imperfections in the crystal ball . Opinion polls in the US Elections have been used since time immemorial, to gauge the candidate s likelihood of winning. They have worked accurately - until this last election. The Nigerian prophet TB Joshua got embroiled in the unpredictability of the US election when he firmly said that Clinton would win. He made it look like even God wasn t sure about the outcome of the election. We shall not therefore say who will win next year s election but only HOW they will win. In a race that is tightening by the day, the 2017 Kenyan elections will most likely be determined by just one thing - Voter turnout. VOTER TURNOUT THROUGH THE YEARSFor many years, it was State machinery that played a key role in our elections. The Provincial Administration presided over elections right from the first one in 1920 through to 1992. The outcome was very easy to manipulate. For much of our Independence, leaders were often chosen at the top and only endorsed by the people in the ballot. This made voting largely an academic exercise greatly hampering voter turnout particularly when they suspected that a leader was being imposed on them. In 1983 for instance, there was a miserable 33% voter turnout the lowest ever. People did not want to waste their precious time when it was apparent who would win, thanks to the experiences they had in 1979. In 1988 the turnout moved to 35.71% of the 5.6 million Kanu members who were the only ones allowed to vote. In 1992, Kenya s second multi-party elections, turnout improved to 66.2%. This was largely on the hope that they were making a positive contribution to change in the country in a new political dispensation. When change did not happen, voter turnout in 1997 fell marginally to 65.4% only to fall further to 57.2% in 2002. In 2007 voter turnout figures were inconclusive but officially, it was 69.08%. After considerable reforms and the passing of a new Constitution, the turnout in 2013 was a massive 85.91% the highest ever.HOW VOTER TURNOUT IS DETERMINEDWilliam H. Riker and Peter Ordeshook gave us a simple but powerful mathematical model for determining voter turnout. The formula is PB + D &gt; C where P stands for Probability of the individual s vote affecting the outcome, B is the Benefit to the preferred political party when the individual votes while D stands for the personal Satisfaction of having voted and C is the general cost in terms of effort, time and monetary or opportunity cost of voting. Now the formula works this way, if you go or don t go to vote, the individual effect of your vote is very low and so is your contribution to the success or failure of the Party or candidate of your choice. Both P and B are very close to zero when we look at the fourteen million or so registered voters in Kenya. The personal benefit (D) is the most important part of the equation because this is what gets people to go out and vote. Proudly displaying that inked finger gives many of us the pride that we have done something great. All these must however outweigh the Cost or effort/time and monetary cost to the individual choosing to vote. Of course the assumptions that go into this equation are many and the imperfections even greater, particularly here in Kenya. THE OPPORTUNITY COST OF VOTINGBy all indications, C will play a leading role in the coming elections with lots of different outcomes across the regions. While Election Day will be a public holiday, lowly paid workers or the unemployed will do their usual hustle or side-hustle sometimes to the detriment of the vote. The wealthy also don t like such long queues and appearing in public places. Forget the large crowds that turn up on roadsides waiting for hand-outs. Those guys scarcely vote. To the poor, it will be just another day. They being many, the opportunity cost of voting will affect their turnout. Kenyan s also have low party loyalty and don t identify with party ideals or philosophy (because the parties don t have any anyway). This is why parties die young and explains why we have a high party mortality rate. Instead, Kenyans are much more loyal to the candidate as an individual or the luminaries he has gathered on his side. We therefore vote to our own individual interest (not tribe) and we vote with low ideological persuasion and even lower attractions to democratic ideals and related rhetoric. That said, the Riker-Ordeshook formula could then be altered to Kenyan conditions and also to factor in the attractiveness (or lack thereof) of a specific candidate given the needs and priorities of the nation and the prevailing mood.IMPROVING VOTER TURNOUTVoter turnout is a two edged sword, you hope your voters turn out in large numbers while those of your opponent(s) stay at home. Voters turn out in large numbers if their candidate or party is perceived to have a slim chance of winning or if the stakes are high. Candidates confident of winning, will normally experience low voter turnout in their strongholds and that may just be their undoing particularly when the national tally comes in. It is therefore not a good idea to give the impression of winning as it may trigger complacency. Opinion polls are often blamed for setting on voter complacency and even apathy. It could also be out of seeing the futility of voting with the assumption that the other has won anyway. Voter turnout particularly in a presidential vote is usually influenced by the strategic interests that a region or community has in the presidency. If there is a candidate from Borana, then the Borana may just vote to the man for their person believing he has their best interests at heart. Here is where we observe the Concentric-Ring theory at work voters will generally support a process that they perceive will improve their own individual/personal interest. This is why our elections are not an ethnic census , they are an interests census . The successful candidate is one who manages to rally the interests of various individuals and communities around their candidature.MAPPING VOTER TURNOUTTraditionally, there has been lower voter turnout from pastoralist communities while the highest is generally from Central Kenya which has produced three of our four Presidents. Nyanza and Western Kenya have each had high voter turnout as had the central Rift Valley. In the last election, Nairobi registered perhaps the highest number of voters who did not turn up to vote 318,000 and if they had voted, it would have greatly altered the outcome or at least the margin of loss or win.To improve voter turnout, a good politician or aspirant/candidate or party, must appeal to our inner desire to make a positive difference in our lives and those of our children and indeed in the future of our great nation. They must create the feeling that the political process is able to create a positive environment for development. In so doing, we must therefore encourage a culture of participation in the political process and giving the people a sense of inclusion. This will improve the voter turnout, not money splashed on voters.Efficiency is key in improving voter turnout. If we make our balloting much faster, then we will achieve greater turnout. Sometimes the sight of the queues are just a turn-off to potential voters who will have to endure the biting August cold and possible wet weather or, in some places extreme heat. Other determinants of voter turnout will be the intensity of the campaigning, the convenience of the voting, and the weather (pray it doesn t rain). PUSHING THE LIMITSVoter turnout has been on the decline world over. The 2013 voter turnout was the highest ever at 85.91%. The figure however, suggests that, even then, more than two million out of the fourteen million registered voters did not vote. A casual observation of the two million, shows that more than half would have likely voted Raila Odinga. Pushing the tally to a plausible 90-95% would radically alter the outcome of the election which is determined on a first-past-the-post basis. First-past-the-post is only another way of saying the winner is the one with a simple majority. That is true for all contestants except the President who must (also) obtain 50% plus one vote and win in more than half of the counties. In the last elections, a good number of registered voters in key strongholds of Raila Odinga did not turn up to vote. This in my opinion, is what actually cost the election of Raila. If they had come out, then they may have denied Uhuru the first round win and in a run-off, normally the runner-up has a better-than-fair chance of winning. This is true if they successfully rally the voters of the losing side, who also tend to revote in large numbers.VOTER CONCERNSA friend of mine Raphael Kahindi Kairu spoke to me at the height of the Post-Election violence in 2008 and swore that he would never vote again in his lifetime. He wondered why he should take part in an exercise that would only end in bloodshed. Despite my assurances that things would someday change, he would hear none of it. He voted in 2013 only when his faith in the system was restored. Perhaps his biggest consolation was the disbandment of the ECK in favour of the IEBC and the extensive electoral reforms carried out. Despite the system being fraught with imperfections, we must each have some faith that future elections will reflect the will of the people. Raila Odinga has greatly cast aspersions on the system in the past which has only served to trigger voter apathy and that has of course turned back to haunt him when his supporters did not actually bother to come out and vote. The replacement of the IEBC Commissioners is currently going on. If there will be any rigging, the rigger might have to find a smarter way of doing it because there is so much scrutiny of the process. The answer to rigging is still out there but the loopholes seem to be closing out. The next elections, assuming they will be deemed free and fair , then we can look at the other factors that will determine the outcome.THE RUNOFFIf the Opposition can work out a single candidate, they are likely to influence a higher voter turnout as both sides of the political divide will want to prove themselves. However, if they scatter their votes, they will deny the incumbent the presidency if they starve him of the 50%+1 threshold forcing a runoff. However, the politics of run-offs are intricate and hinge largely on voter turnout. The two candidates will be hoping that those who never had the chance to vote, will come out in large numbers and so will those who had voted before. The practice however, is that most runoffs, like by-elections, will register lower voter turnout but the chances of the runner-up, are always good if they get their fellow first-round losers around him. That said, it may be just right to remind ourselves the old adage bad leaders, are chosen by good people who do not vote. Whatever you do, go out and vote.