What you want to be when you grow up is the question adults usually ask kids. Sometimes it gets complicated. As people get older, they begin to understand the complexity of deciding on a career. Usually, people find that one thing which helps them make a living, but they soon discover other aspects of themselves that demand expression. Now, adults are faced with the fact that many of us are wired to do more than one thing. So, you can find a medical doctor who has a grocery business &lsquo;by the side&rsquo; or a lawyer who also sells shoes. In modern culture, we call it: side hustles. It&rsquo;s common. In some societies, it&rsquo;s expected and professionals indulge. However, on a closer look, the concept of the side hustle is debatable. In my opinion, there&rsquo;s no such thing. We have been designed for multiple functions and no aspect of a person is more important than the other. It&rsquo;s one person who has many sides and the diversity of expression beautifully makes up the whole. Every endowment or skill is valid in its own right and deserves expression as they unfold throughout your journey. The heart surgeon, who is an entrepreneur, novelist, speaker, basketball coach, lecturer, etc, is fully expressing one person. The surgeon in her needs the novelist and the entrepreneur needs the basketball coach. The thinking that lecturing is a side hustle gives the impression that the surgeon isn&rsquo;t able to give her all to each aspect while engaged in it. The holistic view of your person gives you the stamina that enables you to give your best to each role that you play in life. Think of yourself as a business, the YOU Inc., with various interests being managed from a central point. In this case, every interest is important and gets the required attention per time. The fact that a project currently gets five percent of your time doesn&rsquo;t make it a side hustle. It means that for now, it requires minimal attention and may demand more effort with time. Whatever you&rsquo;re gifted to do, do it well. Let your unique touch show in every project. Protect your brand by establishing a standard that cuts across your businesses. You may be employed and own a bar. Guests to your bar shouldn&rsquo;t be robbed of the level of excellence that your clients at work enjoy because you consider your bar a side hustle. Your work should have a signature that speaks anywhere.Twitter: @SamuelMpamugoBlog: theyouideology.com