The Cabinet on Thursday evening froze the renewal of land leases in Nairobi and other urban centres across the country. The directive was issued after a Cabinet meeting chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The Lands ministry has been ordered to streamline its systems to ensure current lessees are given first priority during renewal. &ldquo;In the event that the occupier does not wish to renew the lease, the land will revert to the government,&rdquo; the resolutions reads. The Cabinet&rsquo;s announcement comes two weeks after a businessman evicted a family from their houses in Westlands, Nairobi.Francis Njeru of Frank Logistics has been charged with the malicious damage to property belonging to the Kurji family. The elderly couple was forcibly evicted from their home by a men armed with machetes and clubs.Njeru allegedly hired goons to demolish the house after the lease had expired. He told investigators he applied for a lease on December 18, 2008. Njeru said on November 10 this year, City Hall issued an enforcement notice stopping development and called for the demolition of illegal structures. The county termed the notice fake.Last week, Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko had to intervene to save another Asian family living in Westlands from unlawful eviction.The family of Rekha Shah, which owns one-and-a-half acres on Peponi Road, has lived on the land for 40 years. The family was almost evicted by armed men who claimed ownership.According to witnesses, three men broke into the property and ordered the guards out. They proceeded to the main house and Shah was ordered out.Shah said a man who identified himself as Peter Kibet told her he bought the property in 2003. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t know whether he is really called Kibet,&rdquo; Rekha told the Star. The man left and Shah reported to the police.The Economic Crimes division of the Department of Criminal Investigations is probing the case. Sources say they have visited the Ministry of Lands and Nairobi county offices to collect files. Yesterday, the Cabinet directed Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery to ensure all the criminals forging land ownership documents are arrested. &ldquo;The Cabinet is concerned about the emergence of cartels who are forging ownership documents&rdquo; and illegally renewing leases, the statement said.