Rivals Governor Mwangi Wairia and Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau put up a rare show of unity during the election of Jubilee Party interim officials on Tuesday.The election was expected to be violent as both sought to have their supporters in the team. Hopefuls voted for 19 interim officials. The exercise was led by former Mosop MP David Koech at Murang&rsquo;a Teachers&rsquo; College.Residents watched in disbelief as the two leaders shook hands and sat next to each before the meeting started. Their supporters flocked outside the hall, peeping curiously through the windows to catch a glimpse of what was taking place.Woman representative Sabina Chege praised the two for &ldquo;demonstrating leadership by ensuring the exercise was conducted peacefully&rdquo;.Chege, who is in the party&rsquo;s national secretariat together with Senator Kembi Gitura, said Murang&rsquo;a set an example for other Mt Kenya counties.&ldquo;Everybody was worried chaos would erupt today between leaders. But we&rsquo;re all happy the exercise was peaceful,&rdquo; she said.protracted grudgeThere has been tension for weeks now as the two accuse each other of frustrating the other&rsquo;s campaigns.Last month the county government dumped 110 tonnes of manure in three venues to stop the launch of Kamau&rsquo;s manifesto. It dumped 10 tonnes of manure in Ihura Stadium, 90 tonnes in the Murang&rsquo;a University grounds and 10 tonnes in Mumbi Grounds.The launch took place in Mumbi Grounds. The Murang&rsquo;a University field is used as a landing ground for choppers when leaders visit the county. The manure was deposited at night. The governor accused Kamau of using the police to intimidate his supporters after an MCA aspirant was allegedly kidnapped and tortured by officers at the Githumu police station last week. During the meeting the two, however, told those in attendance there is no bad blood between them. They called for peaceful campaigns. Wairia said the minor misunderstandings between them should not be misinterpreted that they are enemies.He said the county has been portrayed negatively by media reports.&ldquo;It is a campaign period and politics has to be played. But I&rsquo;m urging people not to hype the small things that happen between us,&rdquo; Wairia said. &ldquo;We are all friends and nobody should try to bring enmity between us. People have to engage in competitive politics.&rdquo;He urged JP supporters to ensure nominations are transparent so people do not lose faith in the party and to avoid discrepancies in the elections. Kamau said they have set precedence for peaceful campaigns. This will help voters decide who will carry the day, he said.