The government is in talks with the developer of the Sh70 billion Lake Turkana Wind Power project to save taxpayers millions of shillings in compensation for its delay.Energy Principal Secretary Joseph Njoroge said land issues blamed for the delayed completion of the project have been resolved, and it can now move with speed. We are working on that (compensation) and by December we will have no problem. We are not exposed that is why we are there every week to avoid that exposure, Njoroge said in an interview at the Danish Ambassador s Nairobi residence on Tuesday. We have solved most of the land issues; we went there with Keter (Energy CS Charles Keter). I don t think we have any prevailing way leaves problem. The last part we had a problem was at a place called North Hor, we resolved it, Njoroge said.Following the government s failure to construct a power line to supply electricity to the national grid, households and businesses have had to pay up to Sh700 million monthly in power bills. The power line connection is supposed to be completed by January 2017.Njoroge has partly blamed the contractor for the delays. The challenge which is there is the pace of the contractor which is very slow. We have to put pressure on the contractor to get the materials and put up the project, he said.The government, through the Kenya Electricity Transmission Company, will put up a 428 kilometre high-voltage line linking the project to the country s main substation at Suswa, Narok. The transmission line was approved in August 2014.The government has spent more than Sh2 billion to compensate land owners along the transmission line which passes through Turkana, Nyandarua, Laikipia and Marsabit counties. We went on sight and spoke to the community and agreed on compensation, Njoroge said.LTWP director Carlo Van Wageningen said the company has a 430 million (Sh46.6 billion) debt. Lake Turkana Wind Power does not want to penalise anybody, but if your project is late the financial institution can t wait. They say you know my friend, you have to pay me, Wageningen said. According to the contract in January, if the transmission line is not there, we need to start generating income so that we can pay the banks. The first payment is due in June. The 310-megawatt project was supposed to have been finished by October 2015, and the connection to the national grid by January.The delay has pushed the completion date to next year. Once complete, the project is expected to light up one million homes by June 2017.