The Government Spokesman, Mr Eric Kiraithe, waded into the debate on a local TV station on Friday, December 2, 2016. Kiraithe unleashed a searing attack on the Judiciary, accusing the courts of being almost entirely responsible for the weaknesses in the war on corruption in Kenya. Kiraithe&rsquo;s strong views on the subject raised an important question as to whether he was speaking his mind as an ordinary Kenyan, in which case this commentary would not be necessary. It is more likely that he spoke in his official capacity as Government Spokesman. First, Kiraithe should know better; The impediments to the war on corruption in Kenya are well chronicled in the Report of the Task Force on the Review of the Legal, Policy and Institutional Framework for Fighting Corruption in Kenya, released late last year. As stressed in the Task Force Report, the administration of justice is a multi-agency effort that requires the highest standards of performance by every actor in the equation. For the benefit of the public, what may appear like a simple and straightforward criminal matter at the court stage involves a number of parties and circumstances, each of which has an impact of one form or another on the efficiency or otherwise of the court process towards a determination. These parties include, but are not limited to, the police, prosecution, witnesses, advocates and the courts. Significant commentary, especially from those in the Executive arm of government, has been on corruption and economic crimes cases whose pace has largely been attributed to judicial performance. However, as statistics illustrate (which can be provided to Mr Kiraithe upon request for his perusal), factors or weaknesses outside the purview of the Judiciary account for 70 per cent of reasons behind the slow pace of corruption and economic crimes matters in our courts. The four-month average (May &ndash; August, 2016) represents a total of 130 initiated cases and 76 resolved cases. It details a cluster of events that explain the course taken by cases in this category. The case data is drawn from the Judiciary&rsquo;s Daily Court Returns Template, which obliges all courts to report on their daily performance. It is not hard to see the factual scenario that obtains in our courts with respect to all matters corruption and economic crimes. While the statistics are clear, the story is not complete. It is possible to ask why the courts would appear to condone the notoriety of witnesses not being present in court. The fact of the matter is that, sometimes, the courts have to entertain adjournments in many cases of this nature in the public interest. The alternative course of action would result in a phenomenally high rate of acquittals when witnesses are persistently absent. Largely as a result of reforms in the Judiciary, 2016 alone has seen 17 convictions for corruption and economic crimes &ndash; likely the highest conviction rate resulting from investigations by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission since it was established. The Judiciary has also hosted a meeting of the National Council on the Administration of Justice, which brings together key actors in the justice chain to discuss the multi-agency effort to combat corruption. Practice directions have now been developed under this framework and will be gazetted in the next few weeks. Corruption is a vice that gnaws at the heart of Kenyan society. It is, therefore, a continuous fight that institutions must wage, both by way of speaking out strongly against it, and punishing it resolutely. It&rsquo;s a real war.