Defending champions Mathare United and AFC Leopards set a date in the final of the Kenyan Premier League Under-20 Championship tomorrow after overcoming their respective opponents at the Camp Toyoyo grounds yesterday.Mathare United romped into the final after pipping Gor Mahia 3-1 in an early kick-off while AFC Cubs mauled Sofapaka 2-0 in the second semi-final later in the day. Should Mathare win the final, they will be the first team in the history of the youth league to retain the title having won it last August after beating Gor Mahia 1-0.Gor Mahia scored first against Mathare through Hillary Ojwang in the 25th minute and maintained the lead all the way until the end of the first half. This was Ojwang&rsquo;s fifth goal of the tournament.The second half was more of a one-sided affair as Mathare had the best of Gor, eating through their already dilapidated charges. Ahmed Abdalla equalised for Mathare in the 49th minute before John Mwangi added a brace in the 79th and 85th minute respectively as the pendulum swung in favour of the slum boys.The slum boys would have scored more goals but lost a couple of chances especially in the second half. Prior to the semi finals, Mathare had narrowly beaten Western Stima 2-1 in an evenly contested match to top their group.Mwangi and Abdalla scored Mathare&rsquo;s goals in the 13th and 76th minute to cancel Erick Otieno&rsquo;s goal in the 58th minute. Gor Mahia on the other hand, beat Muhoroni Youth 1-0 in their quarterfinal match with Edwin Musyoki coming off the bench to save the day.In the other quarterfinals, AFC Leopards thrashed Bandari 5-1 in a one-sided affair while Sofapaka beat a stubborn Kakamega Homeboyz 1-0 to proceed to the semis.Against Sofapaka, Leopards took control of the game right from kick-off and managed a goal through Vincent Oburu barely nine minutes into the match. Tension was evident throughout the match with both sides trying to get the better of each other. Lucky Safari was on point once more for the Leopards, finding the net in the 40th minute to give Ingwe a 2-0 lead as they went into the breather. Isaac Simiyu managed a consolation goal in the 78th minute for Sofapaka who were slowly getting into the game.Gor Mahia will now face Sofapaka tomorrow in the 3rd and 4th playoff at 10am before paving way for the final match at 2pm. The winner of the tournament will pocket Sh500,000while second placed will receive Sh200,000. The third placed team will get Sh100,000with the tournament&rsquo;s top scorer walking away with Sh20,000.