Twenty one traffic officers from the Coast are among the 72 being investigated for corruption before vetting.The number is facing dismissal a day after 36 of their colleagues were fired over the vice. Another 26 were fired after opting not to be vetted.Sources said five officers from the Central police station will be dismissed.The Star also learned that Bamburi traffic base commander Abubakar Bakari is among those who risk losing their jobs. Bakari's vetting found him to be worth Sh50 million.&ldquo;We are waiting for additional reports before getting done with them," NPSC commissioner Mohamed Murshid told the Star by phone. "No one can be dismissed without sufficient evidence."Three senior traffic police officers who were in charge of the county's three main stations were among the 36.Nyali Traffic Base Commander Solomon Njuguna, Chief Inspector Shem Omollo of Mombasa Central police station and Inspector Lucy Murithi of Likoni were found unfit for service after vetting.NPSC chairman Johnston Kabuludi dismissed claims that it is targeting to remove officers in the ongoing vetting of traffic police."The commission is determined to help the government fight corruption. We are not conducting vetting with ill motives. The process is intended to determine competence and skills within the police service," he said.More on this: We are not targeting officers, Kavuludi says after dismissal of 127 traffic copsAlso read: Senior traffic cops panic as vetting panel demand answers on huge MPesa transactionsDuring the traffic police vetting in May, Njuguna was accused of harassing, intimidating and soliciting money from motorists. He also failed to give explanations about M-Pesa transactions to about five people whom he claimed he did not know.Omollo revealed that officers were being paid facilitation fees to testify in court. The commission said this amounted to promoting corruption and bribery within the force.The chief Inspector had told the panel that most times lawyers were being paid Sh4,000 to 5,000 for the &lsquo;service&rsquo;. The National Police Service Commission announced on Tuesday the dismissal of 127 officers out of the 904 traffic officers vetted in four regions.Out of all the officers removed, 50 were from Rift Valley, 36 from Coast, 23 Western and 18 from Nyanza. This year's exercise has seen the sacking of the largest number of traffic officers.