Director of Public Prosecutions Keriako Tobiko has said he is worried about the rising cases of corruption and blamed them on a lack of political will.He said the war on corruption should start from the top to the bottom in the country&rsquo;s political class.&ldquo;You touch a politician implicated in corruption and members of his or her party go up in arms, saying they are being targeted. Where is the will to fight this vice that is threatening to swallow our country?&rdquo; Tobiko asked.He spoke during International Anti-Corruption Day in Kajiado on Friday. &ldquo;We must not forget that corruption is a multi-faceted phenomenon, which requires to be addressed by multiple actors. Because of its pervasive nature and magnitude, it is imperative that all sectors in our society work together in a concerted manner,&rdquo; Tobiko said.Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission CEO Halakhe Waqo said it is important for all sectors to work together in a concerted manner in the war on corruption.&ldquo;The Commission, in collaboration with different sectors under the Kenya Leadership and Integrity Forum and other partners, are working together to ensure that anti-corruption measures are mainstreamed in all areas of our economy,&rdquo; he said. Waqo said the EACC will continue to monitor the operations of the county governments from time to time and support them in reviewing their operational procedures to ensure corruption loopholes are identified and sealed. &ldquo;We must also emphasise that the Commission will not hesitate to take appropriate action against any individuals suspected to be involved in corruption and unethical practices,&rdquo; he said.Waqo said it is wrong to see public and state officers physically assaulting each other. He said such behaviour amounts to violation of the Constitution, the Leadership and Integrity Act and the Public Officer Ethics Act. The Commission, he said, is acting on several such cases and many suspects will be charged.This year&rsquo;s Anti-Corruption Day event took place in nine counties across the country. Kajiado county hosted the national commemoration day. Other events were held in Kakamega, Marsabit, Narok, Kwale, Tana River, Garissa, Elgeyo Marakwet and Embu counties.During Ethics Week in Kajiado county, the EACC carried out corruption risk assessments for the county executive and the county assembly.On Friday, Governor David Nkedianye said corruption is being fuelled by fundraisers that are pushing politicians to seek &ldquo;shady&rdquo; means of obtaining cash to satisfy the demands from voters.