THE majority of those commenting on the Saturday night fire tragedy involving a fuel tanker have only been to schools where critical thinking was not encouraged.When you find comments that do not provide insights but resignation in a situation like this, one that needs critical evaluation of the genesis of these unending fuel tank fires, then you know something is wrong.Main story: Tanker explosion kills 40 along Nairobi-Nakuru HighwayMost of us are well aware there's a pipeline in which fuel flows from Mombasa to Uganda, more than 1,000km. One of the objectives of constructing the pipeline was to make it cheaper to get fuel to its destination and thus make it affordable by the end consumer. The other one was to reduce, if not eliminate, fatal fuel tanker accidents such as the latest one and many others in the past.How come, then, fuel continues being ferried from Kipevu to Uganda, 1,000km away, long after a pipeline was completed to do the same job?What's on the ground: Fuel dealers in our country argue that it is actually much cheaper to transport that liquid from Mombasa to places such as Kitale, Kisii, or even towns where there is a KPL depot.Why? Taxes, levies, convenience charges, etc., all make it too costly for a tanker to pick up the liquid cargo from the nearest depot to the petrol station in Butula, Kajiado, Molo, you name it.Result: Fatigued drives carry mobile bombs from Mombasa to our graves.Back to the contrary comments: In what way does a moment such as "God is still God", "God will see us through", "God will make a way", provide solutions to our greed and lack of foresight? In my opinion, religious education dulls minds. It limits the ability to tap into inherent and learnt abilities. It kills potential by colouring minds with shades of fear of the unknown, which people are told will offend some deity out there in the sky. It makes us default to a point of resignation, instead of searching for solutions. It makes humans forget that life on earth is real, unlike some utopian painted afterlife.We need to push for answers from the people whom we have given the mandate to run institutions supported by our taxes. None of them is doing us a favour, and if they think they are, it's time we kicked their butts.