We are ushering in what the Chinese are calling the year of the Rooster. Someone once quipped that a hungry rooster doesn&rsquo;t cackle when he finds a worm. This of course means that the cackling one is the searching one. Kenyans will be treated to quite a bit of angry political cackling going into 2017. We&rsquo;ve just concluded the rather capricious year of the Monkey. Indeed 2016 fitted that description very well as every turn was just as unpredictable as the last one. The year 2017 for Kenyans will be a heavily political year which could change many things. We are going into the second General Election under the 2010 Constitution. This will be the largest election since we began electioneering in 1920. We are likely to see well over twenty thousand aspirants chasing just under two thousand electoral positions. Political careers will be made and many more destroyed. Predictably, this time next year, there will be someone wondering why they got involved in politics in the first place. And this is not to speak of the over 70 percent of incumbents who will lose their seats.The year of the RoosterThe Rooster is described as &lsquo;fastidious&rsquo;, meaning that every last detail has to be just right with things being scrutinized ever so closely. It is also easily annoyed when things don&rsquo;t (won&rsquo;t) go its way. We are therefore going to see quite a bit of angry interlocution between the players in the political divide and I won&rsquo;t be surprised if it turns physical. Cockfights &ndash; in the House, in the streets, and even in the bars. Corruption scandals have provided sufficient ammo for the Opposition to fire endless salvos at Jubilee. They have successfully associated Jubilee with the desire to steal the upcoming election setting the stage for a major showdown.Here are just a few of the things that will drive political debate and events as we usher 2017. Electoral LawsThe Opposition has united in pressing against the recently passed electoral law allowing for a manual (back-up) system in the event of failure of electronic systems. They say that millions of dead Kenyans are likely to vote (again) thereby handing victory to Jubilee. They say that well-nigh two million &lsquo;ghosts&rsquo; uncannily voted only for the president ignoring the other five pieces of the suit. For some reason, Jubilee wants this rule to remain. This is quite interesting given that they swept into power on a &lsquo;digital&rsquo; platform and now they are exponents of an analogue system. They argue that even Safaricom&rsquo;s Mpesa agents must have a manual register of all transactions and virtually no bank is &lsquo;paperless&rsquo;. The hard positions taken by both sides means that we are likely to see this subject dominating headlines well into 2017. Opposition unityWe shall also see lots of discussion on Opposition unity in the run-up to the elections. The electoral laws and other Jubilee misdeeds have galvanized the Opposition into working together. Already their supporters are excited about the possibility of finally finding a winning formula against Jubilee. They base their optimism on the Narc &lsquo;revolution&rsquo; in 2002 which contained this very same Uhuru Kenyatta. In 2002, Raila declared Kibaki &lsquo;Tosha!&rsquo;. Who then, will be the one saying &lsquo;Raila Tosha!&rsquo;? It was however, one thing to win the Presidency and it was another to rule, especially with so many ambitions to take care of. Fears of a repeat of the 2002 post-electoral fall-outs will dominate the Opposition unity discussions going forward. Shifting alliancesThe Opposition has already lost key leaders such as Martha Karua, Peter Kenneth and (most definitely) Gideon Moi. Others going it alone include Ababu Namwamba and a handful others who have decamped or have been &lsquo;expelled&rsquo; from the ranks of the Opposition. Someone once quipped that the rats are the first to leave a sinking ship. Those still remaining including Raila, Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetangula have been presidential candidates or government operatives before and represent considerable constituencies. The biggest headache they face is to find the flag-bearer without miffing the egos or ambitions of the others or disintegrating their base? Perhaps they could use the First-In-First-Out (Fifo) method in Accounting i.e. using age and the time spent clamouring for change. However, if it were up to me, I&rsquo;d use History. Back in 1966, the Kamba proved to be important allies of the Luo producing what would be the only KPU seat outside (Luo) Nyanza. In 2016, a half-century later, the Kamba find themselves in the exact same boat with the Luo. After the by-elections of 1966, Oginga Odinga emerged as the Leader of the Official Opposition deputized by the only KPU Kamba MP Simon Mutua Kioko, who incidentally shares the exact same initials as Stephen Musyoka Kalonzo (name arrangement deliberate). How then will the other two principals from Western Kenya feel included? Kikuyu-Kalenjin AllianceRaila has once before denied Uhuru the Presidency through Opposition unity. Is it likely to happen again this time round? History is said to repeat itself and indeed it is hard to ignore events from the past as they somehow they find their way back here again. The only thing however that is standing against Raila repeating his historic feat of 2002 is the Kalenjin in Uhuru&rsquo;s equation. The last time in 2002 they did not quite deliver the punch Moi needed to ensure Uhuru won. They wanted the freedom to vote their own way and so wriggled out of Moi&rsquo;s clutches and many voted for Kibaki. Ruto seems to have placed his all his bets on the Kalenjin remaining in Jubilee even doing the uncharacteristic thing of forgiving his rebels and using diplomacy to keep them in. Kalenjin unity therefore remains Jubilee&rsquo;s best card yet. How then can Uhuru work to ensure he remains with it? Part of the answer may just to ensure more visibility for the Kalenjins in the Kikuyu dominated electoral areas. Like Nairobi. Kalenjins have lived in Nairobi from as early as 1902 and generations of their womenfolk have lived in the traditionally African districts for many years. How then is it that they have never produced a single Kalenjin member of parliament in the city&rsquo;s 17 constituencies? On the same breath, Kalenjins must also ensure more Kikuyu visibility in their areas of domination. Like Uasin Gishu. Here, the Kikuyu play a significant role in the local economy but are hardly visible politically. Perhaps the position of Deputy Governor could be well fitting for a Kikuyu this time round, hoping that it will not upset other delicate arrangements. Dynamics that shaped 2013Absent in 2017 will be the dynamics that shaped the election of 2013. The first and biggest being the ICC. As the noose was hanging around Uhuru and Ruto, they spun a whirlwind about the fact that they had been indicted thanks to certain politicians who wanted them jailed to benefit them. They accused foreign powers of perpetrating neo-Colonialism and it did not help that the US seemed to favour Raila Odinga who also shared ethnic roots with Barack Obama. Kenyans gave nothing to chance and turned out in record numbers (85% voter turnout) and delivered Jubilee into power. This time round, the ICC is not featuring at all. Neither is the Mau forest eviction nor is Raila&rsquo;s age or even his ability to use a computer. This time round, the story is largely around Jubilee&rsquo;s corruption scandals, perception of (intended) election rigging and all manner of issues that the feisty Opposition is feeding on. Jubilee&rsquo;s development agenda is not featuring anywhere yet indeed, to be fair, they have accomplished something despite the odds. However, going into 2017, there might be less discussion on development but more on what the Opposition says Jubilee has not done. T Election management By and large, election related discussion in 2017 will be dominated by such issues as voter registration, voter register clean-up, voter identification mechanisms, ballot papers procurement among others. The Opposition is closely watching every move the IEBC is making having already succeeded in removing its chairman and commissioners this ending year. Aside from that, we are likely to see more discussion on the new IEBC chairman whether it will be Ole Kina or Chebukati. Already the Opposition is said to have floated their favourite but in so saying they have probably closed out his chances. The last call remains with Uhuru Kenyatta who may just be keen on knowing whether Isaak Hassan&rsquo;s replacement will be a hostile choice or not. He may also be forced to engage in a game of Russian roulette in selecting the commissioners again basing his choices on what they are likely to do. Although he must be impartial, that is easier said than done. This is Kenya!Political Parties of ChaosIn March 1982, party delegates from seven countries in Africa met in Mombasa to discuss the future of political parties in Africa. This was a rare meeting bringing together ruling and opposition parties from some of the most troubled countries in Africa. They were brought together by the German political organization Polis to study the changing roles of political parties in Africa. They discussed internal party democracy, party efficiency and effectiveness and, crucially, signs of a dying party. Kenya and Zambia sent delegates from their sole parties while the rest including Nigeria, Zimbabwe, Senegal, Botswana and Uganda, had delegates from multiple political parties. As we go to 2017, thirty five years later, African political parties and Kenya&rsquo;s in particular, are yet to get it right on any or all of the above points. Despite the fact that it was held in Kenya, we learnt nothing. Absolutely nothing! Going to 2017, we are likely to see deepening intra-party conflict and blatant abuse of the term &lsquo;elections&rsquo; as various party branches fill their positions. Jubilee recently sent a team to China to study their political conduct but their chaotic party elections shows that they learnt nothing. They explained away the chaos as evidence of their party&rsquo;s popularity. Really? I say tell it to the birds. The Orange Democrats, predictably, will not fare any better either. When their turn comes, they will also be pulling of ears and teeth all in the name of democracy. And as they say &ndash; Afrosinema continues&hellip;.Power strugglesMany people were anticipating 2017 to be the grand finale of the power struggle between the Odingas and the Kenyattas. This duel begun exactly fifty years ago by their fathers, will not reach its penultimate conclusion next year. If Odinga wins, Uhuru will lead the fight to take it back someday in the future perpetuating the legacy of their fathers. If Uhuru wins, Raila may try to create a whirlwind to de-establish Uhuru now that he has declared that he has one last &lsquo;bullet&rsquo; left. He has heavily cast aspersions on the institutions that manage the elections so that Uhuru couldn&rsquo;t win fairly. He is therefore setting the stage for conflict should he lose, fairly or otherwise. Propaganda machinesIn the just concluded US Election, we were treated to an all new phenomenon &ndash; fake news. It was thought that fake news peddled across social media &ndash; particularly Facebook and also in Google, may have served to tweak the outcome in favour of Donald Trump. One notorious piece of fake news was that the Pope had endorsed Donald Trump. By the time it was clarified, it had done the damage particularly among the Catholics. Fake news can come from anywhere in the world not just in Kenya. Kenyans though are quite adept at working out all manner of fake information and peddling it online and sometimes it is very hard to distinguish fact from fiction. Despite our strict media laws, the fake news or ill-intentioned propaganda can still be created anonymously and surreptitiously distributed even under the nose of regulators. Resources for the battleAnother shaper of discussion in 2017 will be money. Money is the Kenyan politician&rsquo;s best friend as it has proved to be the perfect leverage for power. This inescapable reality is one reason that corruption in Kenya will never end and explains why we have so few leaders. The leaders were edged out because they didn&rsquo;t have money or never stole when they could. This has left us with the gargoyles. Besides, the negative evaluation of a poor politician drives them almost insanely to steal. You will not believe the level of creativity they go to, just to make some money. Practically every politician has a scandal surrounding finances and if not, then one is coming. Big money must be found to fund the next campaign, you know this when the prices of essential commodities such as sugar rises sharply on an election year. Every politician regardless of which part of the political divide they hail must have money to fund his campaigns. 2017 will require more than a shovel load of money or paper bags full so to speak. It will require truckloads. We are likely to see the economy feel the effects of campaign spending given the volume of aspirants. Despite the caps that have been placed by the IEBC on campaign financing, the same has not been concretized in law and crucially, even if it were, it would be very difficult to monitor. Money will definitely shape the outcome of the election.