From the streets of Lagos comes a love story with a surprising twist in The Spider King&rsquo;s Daughter by Chibundu Onuzo.Abike Johnson, a pampered seventeen-year old, is the favoured daughter of a wealthy but merciless businessman in Lagos. As the heir apparent, she lives in a palace-like house under armed guard protection and is driven around town in a black Jeep. But Abike is tough as nails thanks to regular clash of wills with her callous father, nicknamed the Spider King for a birthmark on his head. When she was just ten years old, he ordered the driver to run over Abike&rsquo;s dog with the car as she watched from the house. A game of Frustration, is how she describes their relationship.Runner G is an eighteen-year old is slum youth who hawks ice cream on the streets to support his younger sister and their depressed mother. He wanted to study law but when his lawyer father died, their once well-to-do family was left destitute and he was forced to drop out of school. Now his closest acquaintance is a fellow hawker with a stump arm. One day Abike breaks her rule against street shopping and buys a cheap ice cream from Runner G. Attracted by his dark, chiselled looks Abike orders the driver to take the same route the next day and it marks the beginning of an unlikely friendship that develops into love despite rigid social divides. Even the street hawkers have a system of hierarchy.Abike likes his direct talk and traces of former privilege, and he provides a different sort of amusement to her indulged but boring rich life. Runner G is intrigued by the extravagant Johnson empire but suspects there is something disturbing about the family and much that she is hiding. As they surreptitiously uncover each other&rsquo;s backgrounds, it becomes clear that something more ominous than romance links the two. Aunty Precious, the shop keeper who supplies Runner G with ice cream, has a strange reaction on hearing the Johnson name. What begins as an endearing love story turns astonishingly darker with time and matters will come to a head between the two teenagers and Mr Johnson. The story is narrated by both Abike and Runner G giving great insight into Lagos&rsquo; luxurious lifestyles, the intricate economics of street vending, inherent corruption, and how fates can change very rapidly. Onuzo often retells the same scene from the two viewpoints which adds fresh insight but it sometimes feels repetitive. She paints a rivetting picture of ghetto life, and you can almost feel the heat and hear the cacophony of roadside trading. Runner G &ndash; we never get to know his real name &ndash; is an affable personality who grows increasingly obsessed with vengeance but the manipulative, almost dislikeable Abike is the most brilliant of the characters. The conclusion seems rushed and too neatly wrapped up after a violent confrontation. Nevertheless, The Spider King&rsquo;s Daughter is a gripping tale that enmeshes you in the fate of two star-crossed lovers. This is the first novel by Onuzo, 21, who started writing it at just 17-years old. The Spider King&rsquo;s Daughter won the Betty Trask Award in 2013 and was shortlisted for the Commonwealth Book Prize.