To oust President Yahya Jammeh, who ruled the Gambia with an iron fist for 22 years, Gambians voted using clear-glass marbles and not the traditional ballot system.This system, according to the Electoral Knowledge Network, uses marbles, which are cast in separate iron-made drums (ballot boxes) for each candidate. Each candidate in an election has a drum painted with their party's identifying colours, and the party symbol.After the voting, the votes are counted by placing the marbles into special trays (with either 200 or 500 holes), for quick counting.The main advantages of this unique voting system are that it is simple, affordable and locally-owned and thus, people trust it. Gambian voters are well acquainted with, and it is reputedly difficult to rig.It is easier to work there because the Gambia is a small country with only about half a million voters. It is used largely because of high levels of illiteracy.Across the Gambia in East Africa, Kenya is in a standoff over whether to amend Electoral laws to allow the IEBC to use other means of identification of voters and transmission of results in case electronic system fails, in this case, manual register.But Cord and the Jubilee Party don't trust each others motives.Lack of confidence is what makes parties put up parallel tallying systems.Cord argues the joint committee came up with a compromise solution that provided for the use of Biometric Voter Registration. The BVR kits, they say, will necessitate electronic voter identification to prevent ghost voters.An electoral process is an alternative to violence and a means of achieving governance. Disregarding it results to the other option. Violence. We must do it right. To do so, we don't need laws and technology as much as we need goodwill, integrity and honesty by those incharge to deliver an election one which, as Macharia Gaitho says, will be run so efficiently and transparently that the outcome will be clear to see and there will be no cause for disputes. One that enjoys all-round confidence. In any case machines don't rig, people do.And Cord has a reason to worry. In 2013, the systems 'crashed', and this formed part of the petition they presented before the Supreme Court.Raila Odinga is on record questioning two million 'voters' who only voted for the President. This Raila said, was revealed by experts from South Africa, the US and Britain. Certainly because he didn't trust local consultants. At least 25 African countries have tried an electronic component of one kind of another in their voting systems, including Ghana, Sierra Leone, Zambia, Malawi, Rwanda, the DRC, Nigeria and Cote d&rsquo;Ivoire. Many failed spectacularly. But on the other hand, Estonia and Switzerland have not only done well electronically but also moved to online voting. A manual register is important and has its back up role. But it is easier to manipulate.In the amendments, for the manual systems to be used, the IEBC will be required to notify the public and all candidates, and shall immediately cause the notification to be published in electronic media and in at least two daily newspapers of nationwide circulation, detailing reasons necessitating the use of alternative mechanism.With all these requirements to use the manual system, its either decided that this is the system to be used or, some people are planning to make the electronic system fail.Late procurement and failure to test and debug all the technology far in advance, and late deployment of untrusted devices were the reasons technology didn't work in 2013. We are following the same route. Procurement is already late and the IEBC is rushing to re-adjust the timelines. It remains unclear if we'll have elections in August 2017.In cases where electoral conflicts occur, including here in 2007-08, it is largely not because of electoral process but a result of its breakdown. Such conflicts emerge when elections are perceived to be elitist, exclusive, unfair, unresponsive or rigged. We need both systems, but do the parties trust each other? Events in the National Assembly suggest not, and that makes us a laughing stock to the Gambians and their marbles system. But this is what happens when we make laws to serve certain political interests.