Saturday 31 December 2016, COTU Secretary General Francis Atwoli is expected to unfurl the person he says will be the Luhya political kingpin and spokesman. The trade union leader says that he retained a team of researchers from various public universities to undertake a study, to find out who the Luhya people would like to speak for them on national issues and even run for President in next year&rsquo;s elections. In established democracies, it would be curious for members of a language or a traditionally cultural community to appoint a tribal spokesman. The whole idea looks out of tune with modern society and times. Yet Africa is a place of aberrations. African scholars like Chinua Achebe have argued that Africa is not a foil to civilization, a place of reversals and negations. Yet there is a sense in which this looks like an exercise in denial. Africa is the one place in which the herd culture is the passage to opportunities. It seems imperative that a people must come together as a community in order to bargain with other communities for space and survival. Those who do not do so are doomed to eternal exclusion. The bid by the Luhya to bargain collectively should be understood to be behind this quest. It is sad, nonetheless, to see them go the way of all the big Kenyan tribes. For the longest time, this is the one community that has represented the hope of Kenya nationhood. Many times you hear it said that the Luhya can never unite politically. Their kind of &ldquo;disunity&rdquo; has not been such a bad thing; for unity is as good as the purpose that warrants it. If unity should amount to conspiracy against other Kenyans, then that unity is bad. Many a Kenyan &ldquo;large tribe&rdquo; has conspired against another. The Luhya people have resisted that kind of conspiracy. They have accordingly voted in different patterns at each election, with the exception of 2002, when they caught the Narc fever and voted for President Mwai Kibaki. Even then his kinsman opponent Uhuru Kenyatta got a fair share of Luhya vote. The Luhya have also demonstrated the capacity to refuse to listen to political giants in their community. Twice, they have voted out sitting Vice-Presidents &ndash; in the persons of Musalia Mudavadi and Moody Awori. For all that, resisting the herd mentality, they have become the bane of rude jokes for being &ldquo;democratic&rdquo;.Yet the Luhya people should have easily been the community to emulate. It is a sad day for Kenya, therefore, when they are forced to be like everybody else. It is easy to understand why it is necessary for them to go that way. Their democratic and principled spirit has been taken as a weakness. They have become the butt of all manner of ethnic based jokes that seek to demonstrate what a hopeless and rudderless people they are. Atwoli&rsquo;s is not a lone attempt to anoint a leader for the Luhya, but an amalgamation of social engineering that is a communal desire not to turn the other cheek anymore. The Luhya themselves say that you cannot behave at a dog market as if you were at a chicken market. I am waiting keenly to see who will be unfurled at Atwoli&rsquo;s much hyped meeting this weekend.Even as the Luhya grope for identity and unity, however, they must continue to be principled and to help to entrench democracy within their community and Kenya. Their unity under one &ldquo;tribal&rdquo; leader should not degenerate to the kind of zombie following of leaders that we see in other communities. Such a leader must be one to create internal forums of floating and discussing ideas with the greater national good in mind. Such a leader must be politically &ldquo;sellable&rdquo; in any market nationally. S/he must not allow Luhya elected leaders become voting automatons that boast of tyrannies of numbers in Parliament, as has been seen in some other quarters. If that happens, given that the Luhya are numerically set take the lead, Kenya will only be the worse for it. But that is not to deny the community its right to co-exist efficiently with neighbours. The Constitution gives due recognition for communities to organize themselves. So, go on, Atwoli &ndash; name your people&rsquo;s leader. We are waiting to know who it will be &ndash; for I write as a member of this community. But let democracy also continue to thrive within the Luhya nation.Abed Oushiashia, Nairobi.