The KCSE exam results have not come as a surprise to some stakeholders. &ldquo;We are just getting back to reality by bringing credibility to examinations. This failures have been there before but have always been hidden by either drilling or cheating,&rdquo; Dr John Mugo said.He is the country coordinator of Uwezo Kenya. Mugo said the "mass failure" requires urgent attention.Prof Douglas Odhiambo said the country is on the right track on restructuring the education system and bringing back its glory. &ldquo;I am at peace with the performance. In a natural setting it's impossible to have so many candidates scoring As,&rdquo; he said.The results were released on Thursday at Shimo la Tewa High School on Thursday. Only 141 candidates scored straight As compared to 2636 last year. Some 88,929 students met the university cut-off C+, compared to 169,492 last year.Out of 574,125 students who sat the exam, 482,232 failed to meet the university entry grade.&ldquo;There is over 50 per cent failure. Looking at the number of those who scored As and Es it doesn't show a normal curve, which points to inadequacies on teachers and learning in schools,&rdquo; Mugo said.He said teachers concentrate on teaching or drilling only bright students, which explains the abnormal curve. Some 33,399 scored an E compared to 5,350 last year.Scoring between C plain and E with a whooping Other than reforming teaching skills to improve quality Mugo called rethinking on the means of examining students.&ldquo;We can label failure less if we diversify evaluation away from just academic, but also test other talents like psychical activities and other expressive arts,&rdquo; he said.With all the students who scored above C+ likely to be absorbed on government sponsored degree programs, whereas the rest below the passmark are expected to go to polytechnics, tertiary and middle level colleges, many public and private universities campuses that offer parallel programs might close shop for lack of students to admit.&ldquo;Universities will suffer drastically with this performance, but market demands will play a key role here. But its good for our country as now the battle will shift from the race of churning out quantity to quality graduates,&rdquo; Mugo said adding that it will lead to specialization in universities thus shaping universities to churn out graduates with relevant and competent skills to meet the labour market.Odhiambo on his part said universities should reorganize themselves and make their programs attractive and competitive to be able to remain relevant by competition for the thinning number of students.