President Uhuru has assured the nation and Jubilee party members that he has no favorites in coming party nominations and will work with whoever the electorate will vote for. Equally Raphael Tuju the national coordinator of the presidential campaigns has announced that Jubilee party&rsquo;s survival will hinge upon its ability, willingness and success in delivering free, fair and credible nominations. Tuju says the idea of IEBC supervising party nominations is to ensure they are absolutely free and fair. Subsequently, no one should be allowed to frustrate this effort whose failure could create unnecessary problems and enemies for Jubilee party. Notwithstanding assurances of free and fair nominations, there are many people with lingering doubts whether these promises will materialize or turn out be something to lull people while cleverly concealed rigging is perpetrated. To ensure that every Kenyan enjoys the right to free and fair nominations and general elections, independent IEBC should not only conduct free and fair Jubilee but also opposition parties&rsquo; nominations. To ensure elections are free and fair, Jubilee party must ensure certain things do not happen outside the IEBC electoral process. One, people who are vying for elective posts in the coming nominations and elections should not have positions of influence and power in parties or else they will use their party influence and power to enhance their chances of nomination and disadvantage their competitors and opponents from winning same elections. Two, while coordinators of presidential campaigns are not party officials directly, they should not be allowed to vie for elective posts because their position in presidential campaigns makes them look closer to the president, might give them access to resources meant for the presidential campaigns to use for their electoral campaigns, all which give them advantage over other candidates that amounts to rigging. Three, in Nakuru, a coordinator of the presidential campaign who is also a candidate for the senatorial seat seems to enjoy impunity that allows her to organize youths and hoodlums to organize her activities and disorganize those of her opponents. Tragically all this puts into question the wisdom of party headquarters supporting one candidate over other candidates, when all party members should enjoy equality and giving one candidate resources to bully and impose her leadership over others is blatant rigging. People who want to be governors, senators and other elective posts should surrender positions in the party and presidential campaign since all Jubilee candidates will be campaigning for the President. Jubilee party has announced itself as a democratic party whose members are equal and entitled to equal treatment. Imposition of leadership and unequal treatment of candidates and members smacks of failure to observe democracy. Unfortunately imposition of leadership on Nakuru people is not new. When Kanu and Moi were in power, Nakuru people suffered dictatorship imposed on them by illiterate tyrants like Kariuki Chotara, Ng&rsquo;ang&rsquo;a Kihonge, William Lasoi and Wilson Leitich. While we thought we had put dictatorship behind us with multiparty democracy, clearly there are aspects of it we have not given up. With President Uhuru announcing he has no favorites and guaranteeing free and fair nominations, it beats logic, to see leadership imposed from Nairobi fearfully to orchestrate rigged nominations contrary to what the president has promised. Should not those who desire democracy and clean elections then pray to President Uhuru to intervene and reign in democracy in the Jubilee party? President Uhuru has also said that Jubilee party will not use insults, hate speech or ethnicity in its campaigns. Rather Jubilee will use policies and ideology to convince voters to vote for it. Unfortunately many members of Jubilee party are doing within exactly what the President is blaming the opposition for. Instead of selling policies and ideological positions, they are using large sums of money whose source is unclear, violence and ethnicity to influence voting and buy leadership. Simultaneously, President Uhuru has warned youth not to be misused by politicians to propagate hate and unleash violence against political opponents and other parties. But the coordinator of presidential campaigns in Nakuru cannot travel without a motorcade of three minibuses full of fighting youths and hoodlums to attack opponents. Is this the image that President Uhuru and Raphael Tuju want Jubilee Party to have as we head for general elections? In Nakuru, everything in Jubilee Party is done with money. Meetings are money. Voting is money. Cheering and heckling is money. Yet President Uhuru has said Jubilee Party built upon a foundation of ideology and values is better than one built upon a foundation of money, violence and ethnicity. Now that Jubilee party has elected committees to manage party affairs, it should ensure free and fair nominations by keeping party officials and coordinators of presidential elections away from vying for elective seats.