&lsquo;The greatest&rsquo; brings one person to mind: Muhammad Ali. The late boxing legend professed on the global scene for much of his life. During his boxing career, he not only applied skill and speed, but also speech. He was a master at talking for results. By this technique, he was able to win before he stepped in the ring. Ali told you what he was going to do and then did it. This solidified his reputation long after his boxing career. The principle of speech doesn&rsquo;t apply to boxing alone, but any career. How we speak affects our performance in life. Our talk is our conviction. It is what we believe and life&rsquo;s response to us is tied to our conviction. The effect of speech is subtle. As we grow, we develop a pattern of talk due to our exposure and life&rsquo;s experiences. Often, the effects of our speech go unnoticed because it&rsquo;s part of our identity. So we&rsquo;re quick to defend a pattern even when it undermines our success. What you say matters. Your speech is creating profit or loss, increase or decrease. The aura that you carry is affected by the words that persist on your lips. Words have presence and are able to change the atmosphere. Negative people release burdensome words, while positive people create an empowering atmosphere with their words. How we engage words in business is important. It starts with our self talk &ndash; our inner conversation. What do you tell yourself about yourself? What do you believe about yourself? This defines our behaviour, posture and business approach. If your inner conversation is crippling, your confidence would likely be on the floor and that&rsquo;s bad for business. Uplift yourself by your words. In corporate life, we use words all day. So isn&rsquo;t it wise for entrepreneurs and business leaders to become skillful and masters of words? Bosses who understand the power of words use their words to increase and sustain the energy level in the workplace and build strong teams. These leaders know how to bring out the best in people by their words. Your mouth is a strategic tool. Learn to skillfully use words to your advantage. Daily speak confidence into yourself before you step into the business arena. In business, master the art of placing the right words in the right place in the right manner at the right time. Effective leaders have a healthy reverence for words. Don&rsquo;t just talk. Speak for effect.