Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua yesterday tabled documents in the Senate to show that Kalonzo Musyoka used his position as Vice President to acquire 200 acres belonging to NYS, next to his Yatta farm.Kalonzo had been allocated 4,000 acres of NYS land during the Moi era, but Dr Mutua said the VP secured another 200 acres of public land during the coalition government of President Mwai Kibaki and Prime Minister Raila Odinga.The Star has seen the documents. In addition to the irregular acquisition of his current Yatta Farm as documented in the Ndung u report, he, during his term as Vice President influenced an extra allocation to himself of about 200 acres of land adjacent to his Yatta Farm, land that belongs to NYS, Mutua said.Mutua, head of the CCM party, is locked in a supremacy battle with Wiper leader Kalonzo in Ukambani.The allegations are certain to heighten animosity between Mutua, Kalonzo and others named by the governor.By press time, the Star was unable to obtain comment from Kalonzo whose phone was off.The governor appeared before the Senate to respond to audit queries raised by the Auditor General in his report on Machakos spending in 2013-14.Mutua was taken to task to explain conflicting explanations about Sh2.8 billion pending bills.It was when he was questioned about collection of land rates that Mutua raised the issue of grabbed land.This morning senators are to cross-examine the governor over the dossier.In documents tabled yesterday before the Senate Public Accounts Committee in Parliament, Mutua said Kalonzo exploited his position of Vice President to illegally and irregularly influence the allocation of two pieces of land to himself and through proxies.He produced documents regarding land registered as LR 22278 and IR 130409 in Mavoko municipality, Machakos county, registered under Desiral Ltd.He said the company is believed to be registered under his name (Kalonzo) and that of his spouse Pauline Kalonzo. The other land is registered LR 201185 and IR 673338 - 4,000 acres within Mavoko municipality.Before the Senate,Mutua went beyond the land issue to claim that Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama delivered Sh350 million to the Wiper Party leader as part of the deal to join Cord. Muthama is campaigning for Mutua's job.Mutua said Kalonzo used the money to buy a helicopter, a Eurocopter B3 registration 5Y DKK for about Sh200 million.By press time, Muthama could not be reached for comment. The source of the funds is suspicious, given the fact that he has no known profitable business undertakings. As a public figure, he should account for the source of his wealth, Mutua said.Mutua told the committee that an unnamed senator from Western Kenya owns the 360 Degrees apartments in Mavoko, which he said were built on grabbed riparian land.It is reported the senator obtained the land during Grand Coalition government, when Kalonzo was VP.Mutua also linked Mavoko MP Patrick Makau to the grabbing of land leased to the East African Portland Cement Company Limited.He said the land ( LR 7815/1,10424,10425,7884/4 and 8786) in Athi River, Mavoko constituency, was subdivided and sold without the knowledge of the cement factory and the Machakos county government. According to Portland board, documents in their possession show that the leases are far from expiring. Our initial investigations show that squatters were imported to the said land a few months ago to create the environment for land invasion and grabbing, Mutua said.Mutua called for the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to investigate Makau, ministry of Lands officials involved in the transaction, other elected leaders and brokers.Makau could not be reached for comment. Already people have been sold plots and have started constructing. My government has not approved subdivision, planning or building permits. Many people, we suspect, have been conned, he said. If this matter is not handled expeditiously, we fear it may culminate in bloodshed, he added.Mutua had made the claims on Monday before the watchdog committee chaired by Kisumu Senator Anyang Nyong o. He promised to bring the list of people involved in irregular allocations today.The Auditor General said in a special audit report for 2013-14 that there were an undetermined number of land parcels and buildings belonging to the county, valued at Sh961.5 million.The auditor said the lands could be grabbed or encroached upon by unscrupulous individuals privy to the fact of missing documentation.Mutua told the committee Parliament should set up a special inquiry into land grabbing in Machakos. This is just a drop in the ocean. We are unable to trace some documents. People have been threatened and we need the help of Parliament to investigate this issue of land grabbing, he told the committee.