As children, most of us had innocent dreams of what we wanted to be when we grow up. From ice cream sellers, to astronauts, cooks or boxers such as Conjestina, not the garment. These were career goals that were rightfully influenced by our personalities, our curiosity or by talent and interest. Personally, I wanted to be a policewoman.But our pure childhood aspirations were adjusted by the sober influence of our parents, and by society. They were reshaped into more sensible professions such as medicine, law, architecture, engineering etc. You know, the reputable fields. Those who were incapable of making the mark fell by the wayside and picked up the vocational dregs . The dregs here being careers in education, accounting, or, worse, the fundi careers mechanics, tailors, plumbers, electricians and carpenters.In short, some of the most important occupations are reserved for those who are not good enough . And the remuneration and social capital matches the status. They are the least paid, least respected, least appreciated.Meanwhile in Germany, one of the world s most advanced economies, 68 per cent of high school leavers are going for these precise jobs. A German fundi can earn as much as a doctor. In fact, only 18 per cent of high school leavers in Germany end up at the university. The rest of the world is reforming as well. China is in the process of converting 80 per cent of its universities into technical institutions. Little wonder why their economies are thriving the training given matches the economies industrial needs. The opposite is true in Kenya, where the gross enrollment ratio in technical institutions after O-levels is currently at 6 per cent.This, in my view, is not essentially a problem of the education system, but of the mind. We need an attitude shift. However, the blame is not ours entirely. This is just but a continuation of a pervasive colonial legacy, which began as a deliberate effort to confine the African to certain professional fields.Think about it. Britain s Industrial Revolution was driven by technical skills and knowledge. This is what enabled the innovation and application of machinery and equipment in order to produce more, and trade more. The administrative functions in Britain were in fact only a logistical requirement to support the booming industry. But to the colonies, including Kenya, the British encouraged the administrative functions only. The best and the brightest colonised Kenyans were propped up to management roles, with big offices and secretaries. They were then left to push paper all day in their neckties. The mechanics behind the technical work happening in the tea and coffee factories, and other industries, were only accessible to the wazungus .The dimmer bulbs those Africans who did not do well in their basic education, were left to do the handiwork. They would fix things without the training that would give them an entire understanding of the science behind their work. They would have no access to the knowledge that would help them put the whole technical picture together.Unfortunately, this lopsided structure has lingered to date, everywhere in Africa. And it is exceedingly difficult to reverse. No African parent wants their child to become a fundi, no matter how talented they may be.We must remember that an economy s education system must be shaped according to its industrial needs. An economy cannot live on prestige alone, but by the skills and knowledge that enable the society to produce, create and innovate. Even doctors are to serve the function of keeping the wheels turning- by supporting a healthy workforce. At the very heart of economic growth are the workers and the educators that train those workers. If there were a career food chain, teachers and trainers should be close to the very top.Perhaps Matiang i can take us there.