President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto yesterday urged the Kalenjin community to back their reelection and ignore the proposed National Super Alliance.Uhuru said the yet-to-be-launched opposition grouping is comprised of &ldquo;self-seekers&rdquo;, while Jubilee is interested in developing all parts of the country. &ldquo;I am surprised some of them are even creating non-existent positions for themselves, just because they want to share power in future but do nothing for Kenyans,&rdquo; he said.Without naming names, Uhuru indicated opposition chief Raila Odinga had been Prime Minister and Roads minister, but cannot show what he did. &ldquo;Some have been in government for long, yet you have never had a tarmacked road. We have come to do it as Jubilee. Ignore them,&rdquo; Uhuru said.He dismissed the opposition leaders as being envious of Jubilee&rsquo;s development record. Uhuru said it is not true that the governmenthas been losing money through corruption.The President said claims of graft in government are meant to divert attention from the gains made by Jubilee.Ruto said the proposed NASA is a way of bringing together &ldquo;desperate opposition leaders&rdquo; lacking an agenda.&ldquo;While we are talking about development in healthcare, infrastructure and agriculture, they are busy telling Kenyans a lot of stories, planning how to share power without any agenda,&rdquo; the DP said.&ldquo;No matter the amount of propaganda and lies they spread, we in Jubilee plans to ensure Kenyans enjoy development in all regions.&rdquo; Uhuru and Ruto spoke in Kapkatembu, Nandi county, at the start of their regional tour. They will launch projects, including roads and the Last Mile Connectivity Project. Present were governors Cleophas Lagat (Nandi) and his Uasin Gishu counterpart Jackson Mandago. Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter and most local leaders were not given a chance to address the gathering. However, residents shouted, demanding that Keter be given an opportunity to speak.