IT is that time of the year when the amp is turned up on political intrigue, inflammatory rhetoric and no-holds barred mudslinging. Politics is a supposedly a dirty game, so the shenanigans are just part of the package, right? But this week, President Uhuru Kenyatta escalated his attacks on Raila Odinga in a manner that left me surprised at both its intensity, and its bad logic. On a two-day trip to Central Kenya, the President and his deputy William Ruto described the opposition leader as an idler who has nothing else to do but to criticise Jubilee. Even if he [Raila] asks his neighbour in Bondo whom we have connected with electricity, they will show you our achievement. But I forgive him because he is idle, said the President. He also said that Raila Odinga was bad for the economy. When Kibaki was in power, the economy grew by close to 8% in 2007. When Raila joined the coalition government in 2008, the economy contracted to 0.5%. This is not a man you want in government, he said. There is so much faulty logic at play here that I hardly know where to begin. First, Raila is not the only person who joined the coalition government in 2008. So did Uhuru Kenyatta - prior to that, Uhuru was leader of the Opposition! Second, there is the premise that if Raila Odinga had something better to do, he would do it, instead of criticising Jubilee. This completely misses the point, of course, about the function of the opposition in a democracy. The Opposition s work is to hold government accountable, to keep executive power in check. So criticism is (surprise, surprise) the Opposition s work, as part of a broader civic culture that includes communities, grassroots organisations and ordinary people. Accountability must always come before praise. Why must you be thanked for doing what you are supposed to do anyway? It is like a teacher expecting students to thank her for teaching them, when that s what she gets paid to do. Connecting electricity to a village in Bondo is not rocket science; it is not like we are landing a man on the moon in 1969. It is actually the very least we should expect from our leaders. Third, there is the President s disdain for idlers that deserves interrogation. This open contempt for people who are excluded, missing or otherwise sidelined in development is something that worries me deeply. As you can see in the President s remarks, idlers are bad for the economy , and he has the numbers to prove it. Those who are not explicitly building the economy are people this country can do without. VERNACULARS My friend Keguro Macharia, a political scholar and one of the most lucid thinkers I know, recently introduced me to the concept of political vernaculars, of which development is one of Kenya s most dominant ones. A political vernacular a common word or phrase we use in conversation to describe some aspect of our political ecosystem, often uncritically, because like words in our mother tongue, they are self-evident and self-explanatory. You don t need to explain to anyone why water in your mother tongue is maji. It just is. Development and economic growth are such vernaculars that we grasp for quite lazily, without really interrogating what they mean, what costs they have, and what they demand we prioritise. The idea that idlers are bad for the economy privileges the economy over people, and is founded on the view that commerce is the most valuable thing you can do with your life. It supposes that you can find your life s purpose in buying potatoes in Kinangop and selling them in Mombasa. Kenyan parents have this brutal phrase that they like to wield when you tell them what you want to study at university, or pursue as a career: Is it a marketable course? That word marketable is extremely jarring to me, when used in this way. It disdains any activity that cannot explicitly be flipped for a coin. It entrenches anti-intellectualism. It strips all joy from knowledge, and values technical competence over thinking, and really just reduces all professionals to technicians. Most pernicious of all, it derides the invisible work that people do to keep our society going, including care giving, domestic chores and parenting. These things are not marketable , but they are work. People who do them are not idle . NEGATIVE Incidentally, both Jubilee and the Opposition should know that data from Afrobarometer from South Africa, Botswana, Namibia and Lesotho shows a negative correlation between service delivery and support for the ruling regime. In other words, and very counter-intuitively, access to services systematically predicts lower support for the incumbent party. Voters who receive services may in fact be more likely to punish, and those who receive fewer services are more likely to stick with the incumbent. It could be that better service delivery appears to change voter expectations upward; once voters are provided with basic services, they may revise their expectations and demand even more. It is no coincidence that African cities are often the most solid opposition zones in a country even though they are the most developed regions. The implications are clear. Talking up your achievements only makes people think of what more you could have done. So the President is not guaranteed of that vote in Bondo, even as the villager basks in Jubilee s electricity! Christine Mungai is a writer, journalist and executive editor of Africa data visualiser and explainer site Africapedia.com