Top speed-cyclist David Kinjah will defend his &ldquo;10-to-4&rdquo; mountain bike title at the 15th edition scheduled for February 17-19, 2017, on the slopes of Mt. Kenya.He is set to face his stringent competition from a large field of contestants. Kinjah, 44, will be seeking to extend his dominance in the excruciating race for the fourth consecutive year. He is excited about the competition and his preparation has gone a notch higher ahead of the event.&ldquo;I am in no way complacent in my training sessions. Now that it is multi-stage event, there are all sorts of challenges to conquer. It is a great season starter for serious cyclists, and a great event in terms of fitness and technical requirements with great competition,&rdquo; intimated Kinja, acknowledging the course has been improved over the years and is on the verge of meeting international regulation.The cyclist-cum-coach won the 2014, 2015 and 2016 events of Africa&rsquo;s leading adventurous race designed for all ages, fitness, and abilities from technical enthusiasts to first-timers.&ldquo;10-to-4&rsquo; mountain bike&rsquo;s signature 62-km chase drops from the slopes of Mt. Kenya near Nanyuki at altitudes of 10,000ft, passing through alpine moors and indigenous forests, into the Laikipia elephant corridor, and conclude at 4,000ft on lowland savannah.&ldquo;Whether you&rsquo;re a pro or someone just looking for an easy adventure in the wild, it really is unparalleled. I&rsquo;m looking forward to seeing everyone there again this year,&rdquo; he added.The proceeds from this event are fed into the Mount Kenya Trust, an aid organization that works to protect the wildlife, forests, and people of this key water tower. Threats include illegal logging, wildlife poaching, and overgrazing, which together risk the collapse of its fragile ecosystem.Mount Kenya is one of Kenya&rsquo;s most important water catchment areas whose forests must be preserved to keep water flowing to millions of households in Kenyans. It irrigates farmland and feeds the country&rsquo;s largest river, the Tana, which through hydropower generates up to half of Kenya&rsquo;s electricity.Details of how to apply to take part or to watch are at www.10to4.org.