Kenya Lionesses players were engaged in fist fight in Luanda, Angola en-route from the Rio Olympics over pay, the Rio 2016 Probe Committee has revealed.The fight happened during a stopover in Luanda from Rio on their way home after the Olympics.The disagreements on how they were going to share the Sh12 million given by government. The probe committee questioned both parties over the issue getting different answers. While the team management said the girls were fighting over a man, the team members said the fight was over the money, read part of the 90-page report that describes the shambles that were Team Kenya. The Probe Committee summoned team captain, Catherine Abila to appear before it and shade more light on the team behaviour but she declined, the report added.The selection of the team also raised issues and this, the committee hinted, may have led to the poor performance of the team, which finished 11th out of 12 only winning one match against Colombia.There were also issues among the technical officials before departure, which hampered the side s proper preparations. Coach Mike Shamiah had a long running feud with team manger Saralyne Otieno. Shamiah favoured Josephine Adhiambo and Sinaida Aura to be included in team but Otieno preferred Camilyn Oyuayo and Linet Moraa, who eventually made the cut.Otieno got her way with her choices after alleging that Adhiambo and Aura were down with injuries. Two consultants from world rugby Peter Harding and Laurent Gainer, who were send to bolster the team were axed from the team by Otieno without reasons. There was more drama as head coach Benjamin Ayimba was given the responsibility of coaching the women s team while at the same time expected to handle the men s side. This, according to the report, may have played part in the team s disastrous performance in Rio. As the team was preparing for the games in Rio, the programme and the schedule of training was constantly changed by the management and this affected the transport and field usage schedule that was being shared by other teams, the report noted. The choice of Nandi Bears as a training camp for the Olympics was a contributing factor to the team s poor performance considering the venue was at high altitude and Rio at sea level with humid conditions.