All youths without an ID and voter&rsquo;s card deserve to be whipped, ODM leader Raila Odinga has said. He said the 2017 presidential election is &ldquo;a do or die&rdquo; for him, so he needs all votes he can get. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m ready for this battle, but I cannot win if some of you are still lazing about without IDs and voter&rsquo;s cards. Let those youths be caned if it&rsquo;s the way they can secure IDs and voters&rsquo; cards,&rdquo; Raila said. He urged all eligible youths in Nyanza to apply for IDs before January&rsquo;s mass voter registration. Raila spoke on Tuesday during the second day of the Luo Cultural Festival in Homa Bay town.Raila said he will comfortably win if his supporters from the region apply for IDs and register as voters and turn up to vote in large numbers.He directed ODM grassroots officials to conduct door-to-door campaigns to ensure all youths aged 18 and above register for IDs. Raila said the election is won as early as when voter registration ends. He said he will gauge if his presidential bid will be successful by the end of the mass voter registration set for January 17 to February 17.&ldquo;I want our party officials at the polling stations to ensure we register the maximum number of people. All eligible voters from this area must participate in the election,&rdquo; Raila said. He urged the Luo community to stand united and avoid voter apathy.Present at the occasion were governors Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia), Okoth Obado (Migori), Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega), Josephat Nanok (Turkana), Cyprian Awiti (Homa Bay), Jack Ranguma of Kisumu and Kisumu Senator Anyang Nyong&rsquo;o.Nanok urged Cord co-principals to remain united to clinch the presidency. He said Cord stands the best chance to unseat President Uhuru Kenyatta with Raila as flagbearer. &ldquo;We need someone like Raila to be our presidential candidate,&rdquo; Nanok said.Oparanya said ODM governors have agreed to mobilise supporters to apply for IDs and voter&rsquo;s cards. He assured Raila of Luhya support.