As a New Year begins, many uncertainties lie ahead, but we can be sure to see new drivers proud of their recently acquired driving licences and itching to get behind the wheel.Here&rsquo;s some free advice to such drivers. Let&rsquo;s start with the most important recommendation anyone can give you about driving in Kenya: Don&rsquo;t drive here. Not a car, not a tuk tuk, and you should certainly not ride a motorcyle.There are a couple of good reasons why. Take, for instance, traffic lights. In Kenya, they are more like suggestion lights. A red light, when the lights are working, doesn&rsquo;t mean stop; it&rsquo;s an option. It gets even more confusing when you have a traffic light giving one set of instructions, and then right next to the lights is a traffic policeman giving an entirely different set of instructions.Right of way in this country is not determined by road signs clearly marked 'Give way' or 'Stop' but by the &lsquo;who gets there first' rule. Junctions or crossroads, doesn&rsquo;t matter; whoever gets there first, the general practice is they think have right of way, no matter what the law says. We also have emergency brakes being applied in the middle of the road and cars abruptly swerving and weaving. This, however, is not always down to the bad drivers but rather the bad roads, i.e., unmarked speed bumps and the potholes. As a Kenyan driver, you&rsquo;ll be cut off, run off the road, get infuriated by motorists who can&rsquo;t stay within clearly marked lanes, and you will witness many a death defying act. Overtaking on blind turns is my personal favourite.But, 'don&rsquo;t drive here' is not practical advice. You&rsquo;ll have to drive at some point, unless, of course, you have a chauffeur or prefer public transport &ndash; though "prefer" is not how many people using public means would put it.So, how does one drive in Kenya, you must be wondering. Well, we honk and scowl at the chap in the next car slowly creeping onto your lane with every intention of cutting you off. Throw in a snarl as well, it goes a long way.We give the death stare at the motorist who comes barrelling towards you, driving on the wrong side of the road to beat traffic, and then expects you to get out of his way.We play chicken, or as I call it, the blind man technique. Basically, you pretend you can&rsquo;t see that fellow who&rsquo;s about to cut you off or leap from a side road onto the main road in front of you. This technique calls for nerves of steel and your foot hovering over the brake pedal.And finally, we curse and swear, preferably with the windows rolled up such that only you can hear it. It&rsquo;s a helpful coping mechanism.That&rsquo;s it, practical advice for driving in Kenya: playing chicken, contorting your face to express anger, and the use of colourful language alone in the car, all because an alarming number of drivers don&rsquo;t follow, or even know, any traffic rules.Good luck out there, new driver.