The Ministry of Agriculture has launched a crucial phase of its ambitious agriculture development strategy. The phase will focus on evaluating and refining the National Agriculture Investment Plan &ndash; the core blueprint for revitalising crop, livestock and fisheries production in the country. NAIP aims at implementingrecommendations under the AU-led Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development Programme, a framework that is pushing African countries to increase public sector spending on agriculture to at least 10 per cent of national budgets. A meeting of development partners, public and private sector actors was held in Nairobi last Friday. Those in attendance included UN's Food and Agriculture Organisation, the World Bank and the African Development Bank. Also in attendance were county government officials and representatives from agriculture businesses and civil society groups. &ldquo;It's a major achievement to assemble such a broad group of investors and allies who all understand that there is an impressive array of agriculture opportunities in Kenya,&rdquo; said Agriculture CS Willy Bett. &ldquo;It sends a signal to our farmers and to all of the citizens of Kenya that the Government is moving aggressively to generate investments that will bring rapid progress in fields, pastures, fisheries and food markets across the country.&rdquo; Agriculture sector employs an estimated 75 per cent of Kenyans, but has yet to reach its potential to boost food security, nutrition and incomes. &ldquo;The NAIP remains a central tool for the Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development Programme implementation as it translates the continental and country aspirations into an evidence based plan with clear targets, budgets and mutual accountability,&rdquo; AUC&rsquo;s commissioner for rural economy and agriculture Tumusiime Rhoda Peace said. The launch, which happened last Friday drew public and private sector partners who joined officials from the African Union Commission and development partners to agree on a roadmap for making crop and livestock production a powerful engine for economic growth in the country.