A family in Murang&rsquo;a is in mourning after losing two members in the Naivasha Canter accident on Saturday.Onesmus Mitambo said his children Julius Gitau, 57, and Frida Njeri, 44, from Kamaguta village, Kiharu subcounty, were travelling from Nakuru, where they had attended a family gathering.The canter exploded into a fireball that engulfed 14 vehicles and left 43 dead. Families are still identifying bodies at the Chiromo Mortuary.Gitau&rsquo;s wife Susan Wathuti said she had not accompanied her family to Nakuru.&ldquo;We had four other children that we support after their father, who was my husband&rsquo;s brother, died in 1999,&rdquo; she said.Wathuti said her husband was the family&rsquo;s sole breadwinner and she does not know what to do to support the large family alone.The family appealed to wellwishers to assist them in educating the orphans who were under Gitau&rsquo;s care.The death of the two has shaken the village as residents flock into their home to condole the family.Mitambo said Gitau and Njeri were left behind as other relatives travelled back home. &ldquo;We were all travelling in different vehicles. The two travelled with a cameraman, who was recording a video of the occassion,&rdquo; he said.The 83-year-old man said they arrived in Nairobi at 10.30pm, only to hear news of the accident. They did not think any of their loved ones was trapped in the tragedy.Mitambo said the family sensed something was wrong when they could not reach the two as their mobile phones were switched off.&ldquo;We had a distressing night as we were not sure what happened to them. We sent some relatives to the accident scene on Sunday to identify the remains of the car they were travelling in,&rdquo; he said.The distraught father said they identified the camera that was being used by the cameraman.Mitambo said their bodies had already been removed and taken to Chiromo mortuary. They are yet to identify them.He said they were told they would have to wait two weeks to identify the bodies and organise a burial.The spectre of dubious paternity now haunts the Naivasha road tragedy in which 43 people died, mostly incinerated in a fireball.Because most were burned beyond recognition, the state must use DNA for identification. Fathers, mothers and siblings rushed to present DNA samples. But fathers&rsquo; samples are being rejected as less reliable.The state has bypassed fathers and is only testing DNA from mothers, brothers and sisters to identify remains. Autopsies and DNA testing will take at least two weeks to a month and funerals will be delayed, except for those who died in hospital and whose families are known. Their DNA will be collected and tested.