Former Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka yesterday pitched himself as the strongest candidate to unseat President Uhuru Kenyatta and the visionary servant leader to unite all Kenyans. Speaking after his nomination as Wiper Democratic Movement presidential flagbearer, Kalonzo declared, "Enough is enough. I will not take pretence again because I have been betrayed before.""I do not want to be called a watermelon again. We must be selfless. I will not take pretence. We must change tack if we want to deliver the change. I have sacrificed before and I am ready to sacrifice, but this time round, we cannot stop what God has purposed," Kalonzo said.He added, "It is time to realise that if we keep doing the same things over and over, then we will not have change. I offer myself as a servant leader, ready and willing to unite all Kenyans."Kalonzo said Kenyans need a government focused on governance, not entitlement, expansion of opportunities, not bureaucracy. "The fight for change has been hijacked by privileged eaters," Kalonzo said.Cord and ODM chief Raila Odinga and Amani National Coalition leader Musalia Mudavadi &mdash; all gunning for the opposition ticket &mdash; attended the nomination at Kasarani indoor arena. Mudavadi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula have been nominated by their parties. ODM is expected to nominate Raila. The problem is choosing a single opposition standard bearer.To sweeten the deal for his colleagues who support formation of the National Super Alliance, NASA, Kalonzo proposed a constitutional amendment to create the position of Prime Minister. He said he would do this within six months of becoming President.This would also be a way to curb tribalism, he said.Kalonzo also said his government would change the Supreme Law to create positions of deputy Cabinet Secretaries, similar to assistant ministers under the old Constitution. He used his acceptance speech to once again denounce Uhuru's Jubilee administration, which he called a corrupt and failed regime that has not focussed on the needs of Kenyans.He told Uhuru not to "blackmail" Kenyans with calls for peace during and after the 2017 polls, saying the opposition wants a free, fair, credible and transparent election. The Wiper leader, Raila's running mate in 2013, said Jubilee has failed to deliver to as promised."Kenyans now want change and I am a man with a vision for that change," Kalonzo said.He said Uhuru and DP William Ruto were banking on the tribal arithmetic of two big parties to win reelection. "Politics based on tribal arithmetic is an insult to a basic principle of democracy. But the writing is on the wall that it's time for change and the person to bring that change is me," Kalonzo said.The Jubilee government has entrenched corruption, tribal bigotry, unemployment and a rising cost of living, he said."We know the two people (Uhuru and Ruto) who should be going through a long period of unemployment. Don't we know them? Next year's election is about restoring power to the people,"Kalonzo said.He said the country is burdened by unsustainable debt and his government would renegotiated loans and agreements.The former VP said that he would renegotiate loans and agreements raised the debt.