IS President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) sincere in calling for issues-based and nonemotive politics ahead of the 2017 polls? This is the question some civil society activists are increasingly heard asking. President Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto have beencalling opposition chief Raila Odinga all kinds of names, including witchdoctor, Lord of Poverty. According to the activists, the attack on Raila peaked when Uhuru toured his Mount Kenya backyard. They said Uhuru is blowing hot and cold on his commitment to issues-based politics and is seeking to use ethnic emotion for his reelection. Ironically, when he visited Makueni, Uhuru said the era of gaining political mileage by abusing others is long gone and wananchi want to see elaborate plans for developments.**** CORRIDORS has it that five companies on the watch list for supplying sub-standard goods have hatched a plot to malign officials of the Ministry of Devolution into submission. The companies, who take three-to-four months to deliver emergency drought disaster relief food, frown upon criticism by the ministry when their stuff is rejected by quality inspectors. It is said the directors of the companies, believed to have connections with powerful individuals in government, are threatening ministry officials with dire consequences for exposing them. It is said some Devolution ministry officials have developed cold feet, bowing to the threats - lest they lose their jobs. IS the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission scrutinising the Auditor General Report on the National Government? Or are they waiting for the media to break news of a mega scandal before they swing into their usual reactionary &ldquo;action&rdquo;, like they did with the Sh5 billion Mafya House scam? Picture this: 227 Pensioners&rsquo; PIN as per the pension file differs with certificates held at the Kenya Revenue Authority. Similarly,121 housing units of medium and high grade houses in Nakuru have changed ownership from government to private. However, no records were provided regarding the disposal process and the amounts realised from the sale. This is why some MPs and religious leaders demanded the EACC be disbanded for failing in the war on corruption.****** A beverages company has employed a foreigner to lead its latest propaganda and sabotage campaign as the festive season kicks in. The foreigner had been in the country previously and then left for lack of a work permit. He has been given a high-end vehicle which he uses to move around the city late in the night, especially in Eastlands.