A trip to Tanzania by Embu MCAs that was captured in the 2014-15 Auditor General s report was funded by a contractor, the Star has learnt.Slightly more than Sh6 million was taken to the Embu assembly by the unnamed contractor in cash and received by clerk Jim Kauma. The money was to cater for the MCAs trip.He later prepared a cash distribution sheet and dished out the money to all the MCAs as allowances and per diem for the trip to Tanzania that was organised by the county government. The money was brought here in cash in sacks. The assembly does not handle cash, so you can imagine the nightmare, the clerk said.A further Sh7.5 million was contributed by the county assembly to cater for the travel expenses of the executive. The Auditor General says Embu county assembly spent Sh14,587,822 for a five-day trip to Arusha, Tanzania, where top officials received thousands of shillings in travel allowances and per diem. Among those who travelled are 34 MCAs, two aides, one clerk, one driver, one security officer and 15 executives. However, the invitation letter to Tanzania seen by the Star shows all the costs were to be catered for by the county executive.The invitation letter was signed by county secretary Raymond Kinyua.Embu speaker Kariuki Mate approved the invitation, since the county executive had promised to take care of the travel and subsistence costs.Youth and Sports executive Emily Njuki denied the money for the trip was from a stadium renovation payment. She said the contractor was paid and it s not her business to worry how someone uses his or her money.This revealed another anomaly: The contractor was paid before renovation work at the stadium was halfway completed. An MCA, who did not want to be named, said the contractor commands mass influence in the county. The MCA said the contractor is usually favoured and her payments for tenders awarded are made before any works starts. I believe the contractor was advised to hoodwink the assembly with a trip to Tanzania so as to be getting all the county tenders, the MCA said. The MCA revealed that the contractor has been getting most of the tenders.He said the contractor had applied for a particular tender using five companies with the same addresses and contact informationSpeaker Mate defended the assembly, saying they are clean on this issue. I can confirm that the approval I gave was for an invitation by the executive to MCAs to participate in a transformative programme called Empower One, Empower Village . The executive undertook to meet all costs, he said.