Satan is out to hurt Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka s reputation and ruin his chances of becoming President by convincing people he has grabbed 4,000 acres in Mavoko, area MP Patrick Makau has said. The other day I discovered that Satan with his long tail can enter anywhere.I heard someone say Kalonzo has stolen 4,000 acres in Mavoko. I can assure you that, as the area MP, there is no such land. Kalonzo is as clean aswool, he said. The MP said he did not know of any property in Mavoko that belongs to Kalonzo and any of his associates.Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua implicated Kalonzo in land grabbing. The African Dignitary Man of the Year award that Kalonzo won at the United Nations in New York proves he has high morals, Makau said. It also shows he has the qualities to unite this country and promote peaceful co-existence, he said.He spoke during Entumo Oolmakesen clan prayer day in Ilgarooj village, Kajiado West. The clan organised the three days of prayer for peace and unity of the clan and the country.Kalonzo, who was also present, did not comment on the allegations but attacked Jubilee for not fighting graft.He warned against glorifying those implicated in mega corruption scandals as the looting will lead to Kenya s collapse. It seems that those implicated in looting of public funds are the ones highly respected. This can never make a country prosper, Kalonzo said.Kenya needs a leader who can end corruption and bring the nation back to the path of progress, he said. Now everybody seems to be crying because of corruption. Even the President is crying. Now if the President can cry, what will happen to the ordinaryKenyan? the Wiper leader said. This is the reason we must look for a solution on corruption in this country. That is why I am asking for yourprayers for the journey ahead, the Cord co-principal said.On matters administration, Kalonzo criticised the Jubilee propaganda that when Cord takes power, they will get rid of chiefs. He said chiefs and assistant chiefs will remain to serve wananchi as the administrative units help promote security.