Some Jubilee MPs yesterday told the opposition to prepare for a tough battle both in the streets and at the ballot in 2017, after Cord leaders announced a series of peaceful protests from January 4.Cord leaders on Thursday declared the protests in response to Jubilee&rsquo;s &ldquo;legal coup&rdquo; in passing disputed elections laws to allow for manual voter identification and transmission of results.Cord co-principals Raila Odinga (Odm), Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula (Ford Kenya) and Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) say the contentious amendments to negotiated elections laws is Jubilee&rsquo;s plot to rig elections.They said allowing a manual backup if electronic system fails during the August 2017 polls will pave way for rigging elections, adding that &ldquo;ghosts and underage voters&rdquo; in Jubilee strongholds will vote.However, Jubilee legislators, including Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru, said the opposition has sensed defeat and warned that they will not allow Cord to conduct the planned demonstrations.&ldquo;Cord wants an excuse to cause chaos. Their intention is to insist on electronic system so that when it fails they demand for a coalition government,&rdquo; Waweru said. The Nairobi governor aspirant said Cord protests disrupt businesses in the city, hence, they will come out as Jubilee MPs to protect residents.&ldquo;They can picket if they so wish but as Jubilee leadership in Nairobi, we will defend our businesses in whatever means possible within the law,&rdquo; he said. Kieni MP Kanini Kega told the opposition to get ready for a stiff battle in the streets. He said Jubilee enjoys tyranny of numbers both in Parliament and outside. &ldquo;This time round we will not let them destroy property. We will meet them on the streets,&rdquo; Kega said.In May, Cord leaders conducted anti-IEBC protests, leading to the formation of a 14-member joint parliamentary select committee, which came up with negotiated election laws. At least six people died during the protests.Nominated MP Johnson Sakaja said Cord is free to do whatever it wishes, including protests, but they should be within the law.&ldquo;The law enforcement agencies will deal with them whether they stay within the law or not. For us, we will deal with the political aspect,&rdquo; Sakaja said. Kega accused the now-defunct parliamentary committee on IEBC, co-chaired by senators James Orengo and Kiraitu Murungi for causing the ongoing standoff between Jubilee and Cord.