RESIDENTS of the city&rsquo;s Eastleigh Section Three estate are an unhappy lot. They are seething with anger and fear over the invasion of a deadly criminal gang nicknamed &lsquo;Superpower&rsquo; that is robbing and killing people at will. The group, formerly operating in Eastleigh North, relocated after Pangani police decisively descended on them. The residents are now worried that the continued inaction by Shauri Moyo police station and the Eastleigh Section Three police post may worsen the security situation in the area. Claims of the law enforcers collecting bribes from suspects arrested by law-abiding residents have not been addressed and remain a ticking time-bomb. The area chiefs are a frustrated lot too, as their reports are not acted on. If only Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet (pictured), through the county commander, could extend the heroic work of Pangani police, who did a great job in containing the gangs, to Eastleigh so that residents feel secure! ***** AN aspirant for Nyatike MP was left dazed over the weekend when his function to launch his bid for the seat went with the wind, literally. The man, a trade unionist, had erected a tent at the site of the function and everything looked all set. Midway through the poorly attended function, the area was hit by a powerful gust of wind that blew away the tents, leaving the small crowd scampering for safety, cursing the man. The exasperated crowd was overheard urging the man to reconsider his candidacy as this was an unsolicited but unmistakable sign that all was not well with his bid. **** CORRIDORS of Power has learnt that a governor from Northeastern is a man under siege after his deputy, who has stood by him through thick and thin, threatened to walk away and spill the beans on his corrupt tendencies, arrogance and ceaseless undermining of the deputy governor&rsquo;s office. The governor is said to be pocketing 10 per cent in kickbacks from every contract the county awards, leaving his deputy out in the cold. The deputy governor has compiled a dossier enumerating the financial ills worth billions in taxpayers&rsquo; shillings at the county. He intends to unleash the dirt at the appropriate time.**** AN MP from a county in the Mt Kenya region is on the spot for sending goons to interrupt a rival&rsquo;s political meetings. The MP, who wants to become governor, is alleged to be buying cheap liquor as well as giving handouts to the goons to accomplish their disruptive mission. A source close to the MP&rsquo;s personal assistant, and who sought anonymity, said the goons are organised a few days before the rival&rsquo;s events take place, and they are properly briefed on very improper actions. Interestingly, the MP&rsquo;s aide is the one who gives out the handouts with the help of an official of the county assembly. Recently, the MP openly squared it off with a rival at a function attended by the two.