Following the call to action for doctors in the public health sector on December 5, 2016, you have heard that the doctors seek implementation of the CBA, Collective Bargaining Agreement. This was an agreement between the Kenya Medical Practitioners&rsquo; and Dentist Union and the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Kenya, signed on 27th day of June 2013 in Nairobi. This is a fact. The representation and focus on the 300% pay increase might have led the public to believe that the twenty-seven page document, only contains the consensus proposal for salaries by job groups and that all doctors want is a pay increase. This is fiction. There is far more to it &ndash; and the real beneficiaries of the full implementation of this CBA would not just be doctors, but the general public.Admittedly, we cannot go through the cycle of assigning blame but there is need to take some responsibility; it is our duty to help in separating fact from fiction.The healthcare system in Kenya has been in crisis, long before the strike was called. How many preventable deaths are witnessed from a lack of access to healthcare services or worse still access to under staffed and ill-equipped facilities? How many stories have been told of a mother who died during childbirth or cancer patients being diagnosed a little too late? How many Kenyans arrive at a hospital either to be told the specialty doctor that can attend to them can only be found in Nairobi? Do you think that part of the description of what has been repeatedly justified as a &lsquo;calling&rsquo;, was for doctors to watch patients die, not because nothing can be done, but because our working conditions do not allow us to. And we are not talking solely about pay we are talking about resources that enable us to perform our duties. The WHO recommends one physician per 1,000 people while the union found the situation in Kenya is one doctor to 17,000 with a need of at least 83,000 doctors to meet the WHO recommendation. In February 2016, the KMPDU Secretary-General, Ouma Oluga highlighted this same concern, &ldquo; The public health sector is being dealt a major blow, and we lose about 25 doctors a month with most resigning or choosing to emigrate. In the last three years, we have lost about 2,000 doctors, most of whom came from the public sector.&rdquo; Doctors will tell you, &lsquo;No doctor took an oath to witness death that they could prevent on a daily basis.&rsquo; Yes we spend six years in training, but even with our cumulative knowledge and skills we are not able to visualize inside patient&rsquo;s abdomens and brains without X-ray, Ultrasound, CT and MRI machines and we only have two hands and hence can only examine one patient at a time. The one thing which cannot be over-emphasized is that this strike is about retaining doctors and aiding what is increasingly the bleeding public healthcare system in Kenya, not just in terms of workforce but also implementation of policy. The remuneration under discussion is not a figure that was plucked out of thin air: it was arrived at after detailed discussion and taking into consideration a wide variety of factors. And this is not just about retaining doctors in the immediate future: the bigger picture here is to make the practice of medicine in Kenya attractive enough to ensure that we will steadily head towards that WHO recommendation of one doctor per 1,000 people. In absence of such retention, no amount of investment in new and modern equipment is going to have any impact on the health of our people. In a 2011 study analyzing physician emigration from Sub-Saharan Africa to the United States utilizing the American Medical Association Physician Masterfile, it was found that Liberia was most affected with an estimated 77% of physicians trained in Liberia working in the US. If you are to bring it much closer to home, in 2015, among the medical professionals who were understood to want to leave Uganda for Trinidad are 20 of the 28 registered radiologists in the country, four of the six urologists and 180 midwives according to the guardian. Albeit this was part of a counter-productive strategy by the Ugandan government to &ldquo;further accelerate the existing excellent bilateral relation&rdquo; with Caribbean countries, it was evident that the health care providers were much too eager to take up the opportunities. In an article published by the Guardian during the same time period, the irony of the situation was described as such "At the paediatric and childcare department of Uganda&rsquo;s Mulago national referral hospital, a memo advertises vacancies for nurses in a private clinic. Two points are highlighted: attractive salary and accommodation. Another memo from the hospital management apologizes for the delay of January salaries for medical staff. Delayed or insufficient salaries are not new in Uganda&rsquo;s public hospitals. Medical workers in rural areas wait for as long as three months without pay. Accommodation or transport costs are a rarity.Private clinics and health centres in other countries capitalise on this to poach physicians and specialists from public hospitals."The Guardian article continues: &ldquo;The Institute of Public Policy Research Uganda (IPPR-U), a local think-tank, has gone to the high court to stop the export of health workers and compel the government to encourage them to stay. Justinian Kateera, IPPR-U&rsquo;s executive director, said: &ldquo;While the government is bent on exporting health workers, thousands of Ugandans are dying daily. Sixteen women die daily giving birth, but the government can&rsquo;t see that as problematic. &ldquo;This [Ugandan case] is going to set precedents on the continent. We want governments to know that it is their responsibility to retain key professionals,&rdquo; Kateera said.&rdquo;May the Kenyan government take note: it is their responsibility to retain key professionals.The CBA doctors seek to be implemented addresses equipping and staffing of medical facilities as well as training of the workforce. The CBA provides for employment of 1200 doctors annually to bridge the gap; training of 400 specialists annually over 4 years in order to handle the demand of the public for health specialists and equitable distribution of specialists across the country as well as creation of a research fund for clinical research to enable Kenyans access high quality treatment in line with article 43 1 (a) of the constitution of Kenya 2010. Fact is the CBA seeks to implement the third pillar of Universal Health Coverage as outlined by the WHO, that is, a well motivated, well trained and efficient health workforce. Doctor&rsquo;s did not wake up one day and decide to go on strike. The CBA was signed on the 27th day of June 2013 and received by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC) on the 28th day of June 2013 and other relevant government agencies within a month of its signing, the procrastination and unwillingness to act on the document by the Ministry of health and other government agencies has led to the current stalemate. In November 2014,the SRC organized a meeting between the union, government agencies and the county governments; the resolutions was that the document to be implemented within 28 days. The employment and labour relations&rsquo; court equally ruled on the same on the 6th day of October 2016 and the ministry was to convene all relevant stakeholders within 30 days from the ruling date and SRC was to give input within 45 days. Fact is, the timelines were once again ignored. It has been three years and if doctors are to wait another three, the 4000 doctors in the public sector might be no more, keeping in mind less that 50% of doctors in the register are practicing and approximately 25 are lost per month and that we certainly don&rsquo;t produce 3500 doctors in a year. Those are the facts, and no banal and simplistic macro-economic arguments like those put forward by Dr. Susan Mugwe, PhD, in The Star last week can change that.*Dr. Mwachonda is the Deputy Secretary General, Kenya Medical Practitioners&rsquo; and Dentist Union and Dr. Wangari is the StarHealth Resident Correspondent.