Nondies centre Ogeto Gecheo is dead. Gecheo succumbed to a spinal injury sustained in the Nondies&rsquo; 43-10 Kenya Cup defeat at the hands of Strathmore Leos over the weekend. He passed away yesterday at 4am at Aga Khan Hospital.The younger sibling to Nondies&rsquo; chairman and SuperSport East Africa general manager Auka Gecheo was rushed to Aga Khan Hospital for further checks after the injury and underwent surgery on Monday morning.Gacheo schooled at Maseno School, where he captained the side to the runners up position in the national 15s title during the 2014 Kenya Secondary School Sports Association (KSSSA) school games. He joined Impala Academy last season before crossing over to Nondies this season.Gacheo made his Kenya Cup debut in a 17-5 defeat to Homeboyz last month. Nondies head coach Christian Josiah was at a loss for words over Gecheo&rsquo;s death/ &ldquo;It is a huge loss for us as a club and a very difficult time to lose such a budding great player. He was a very mature person despite his age and when he spoke, he commanded audience. It was his first year at Nondies and had done really well,&rdquo; added Josiah.On the circumstances that led to his death, he said: &ldquo;He successfully underwent surgery yesterday (Monday) and was in high spirits. We talked, was very cheerful and was even looking forward to the rehabilitation period. Unfortunately this morning (Tuesday), he developed breathing problems and passed on.&rdquo;The rugby fraternity mourned the death of the youthful player and took to social media. &ldquo;Resolution Impala Saracens fraternity has learnt of the unfortunate demise of Ogeto Gecheo, former Impala Academy captain with shock. Ogeto, who transferred to Nondescripts RFC, always showed great leadership promise. His input was always felt. We&rsquo;ll miss him dearly,&rdquo; his former club tweeted on their official handle.&ldquo;Our prayers and thoughts are with the @nondescriptsrugby family following the untimely demise of outside centre Ogeto Gecheo. Ogeto succumbed to an injury sustained during the Strathmore Leos v Nondies over the weekend. May he rest in eternal peace. #RIPOgeto,&rdquo; Mwamba RFC posted on their Instagram account.