The wives of Western and Nyanza governors say they &ldquo;must&rdquo; remain First Ladies and they&rsquo;re campaigning hard for their husbands&rsquo; reelection.Western and Nyanza First Ladies Caucus chairperson Margaret Lusaka from Bungoma said it is essential they continue their work as women&rsquo;s leaders.&ldquo;The governors have done a good job and their re-election in next year&rsquo;s polls will make Kenya a better place to be. That is why we want them voted back,&rdquo; Lusaka said.&ldquo;Our leadership as women is seamless. Irrespective of party affiliations, we are one. That is why we are here as one, forging the unity of Western and Nyanza and ensuring no girl goes hungry.&rdquo;The caucus is comprised of the wives of governors from Busia, Bungoma, Kakamega, Vihiga, Siaya, Kisumu, Nyamira, Migori, Kisii and Homa Bay.Girls'mentorshipIt aims to start mentorship programmes for girls. Lusaka said each First Lady contributes Sh50,000 to help colleagues who organise events in their counties.&ldquo;Judy Ojaamong has taken the lead and we follow,&rdquo; she said. Five First Ladies, including Olivia Ranguma (Kisumu) and Rosella Rasanga (Siaya) attended the launch of the Busia chapter of the mentorship programme. First Ladies from Vihiga, Migori, Kakamega, Homa Bay and Migori sent apologies.Taita Taveta First Lady Hope Mruttu, who was a special guest, praised Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong for &ldquo;steering the county to greater heights&rdquo;.&ldquo;I also have a special liking for Ida Odinga. She has what it takes and I want her to be our First Lady in 2017. She will make a very good one,&rdquo; she said.Ojaamong said Ida has taught him many things, with his mentor Raila Odinga, a Cord co-principal. Ida said Ojaamong is his &ldquo;son&rdquo;.Stiff oppositionMost governors face stiff opposition from senators, who want to tke their jobs. County bosses are very influential and control billions of shillings.However, Auditor General Edward Ouko has raised queries on possible misappropriation of billions of shillings allocated to the counties.