Following media reports, IPOA noted with deep concern cases of alleged police brutality meted out to members of the public in Mumias arising from the reported loss of Police arms and ammunition at Booker Police post. While IPOA condemns injury of a police offi cer and stealing of the guns and ammunition and acknowledges the need for action by police in recovering these armsand bringing the off enders to justice, there is however no justification whatsoever for the attacks witnessed on members of the public, rape and destruction of their property or indeed involvement in criminality in whatever form.The National Police Service is enjoined under Article 244 of the Constitution to strive for the highest standard of professionalism and discipline among its members; comply with constitutional standards of human rights and fundamental freedoms; train staff to the highest possible standards competence and integrity and to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms and dignity; and foster and promote relationships with the broader society. This provision is often times observed by police in breach than in compliance.There is no room in an orderly democratic society that believes in the rule of law for collective punishment. That criminal elements could brazenly attack a policestation and steal arms weaponry is the height of impunity.It is however an indictment on police preparedness and intelligence gathering in preventing commission of crime of this magnitude.Thus, following the reports, and pursuant to its statutory mandate, IPOA proceeded to launch investigations to determine culpability of off ending police offi cers with a view to making appropriate recommendations. In the course of looking in the matter, the authority will consider all angles of the attack with a view of establishing if there were procedural and operational gaps such as how a lone police offi cer was assigned to man the police post which had stores, munitions, guns besides public property.Our investigators are already on the ground trying, not just to establish claims of brutality residents have leveled against the police offi cers, but what led to the lapses that made it easy for the attack to succeed in the manner it did. The purpose of our investigations is not to pass judgment. Or even to bring punishment to those responsible for the lapse. Rather it is aimed at highlighting the gaps that led to this attack. It is aimed at helping the service redeem the situation and ensure similar attacks do not happen again.So far, our investigators have made major strides since they arrived in Mumias last weekend. Currently, they are based at the Christian Growth Church in Shibale where they are taking statements on witness accounts of what transpired before and during the course of the ongoing operation. The presence of the investigators has given those Kenyans complaining of police brutality, an opportunity to explain and share their stories. We are encouraging them to come out, lodge their complaints and not have fear of any repercussions.The work is expected to end by the close of business today (Friday). IPOA has received lots of useful information. The information so far received is suffi cient to give us the public s side of the story of exactly what happened. The authority is now fi nalising collecting the accounts from members of the police service who have been cooperative. Once done next week, we shall retreat, prepare a report and assign culpability, if any and give our recommendations in areas we believe the service needs to improve on.Be it as may, it is IPOA s view that the police service ought to move away from being reactionary but an intelligenceguided institution if these kind of attacks have to be weeded out. The service needs to invest in early detection of crime rather than being reactionary.We have advanced this suggestion to the police service and they have been very receptive. It has worked in the antiterrorism war where investment in intelligence is working. If the same is applied in the fi ght against crime, it will save the service from the kind of negative information being told from Mumias.Dennis Danson Oketch is Head, Communications and Outreach, IPOA