As the year 2016 draws to a close, there are ominous signs of an impending conflict on the horizon, as our politicians beat the drums of war.Political leaders have in the recent past engaged in an acerbic war of words, issuing inflammatory statements bordering on hate speech. In a near-replication of events preceding the 2005 referendum some leaders have consciously chosen to insult each other, raising the political temperature to dangerous and unacceptable levels. The mischief is not restricted to one part of the political divide because the Jubilee Party and the opposition are equally guilty.One wonders whether Kenyans learnt any lessons from the 2007-08 PEV that caused the death of about 1,500 people, destroyed property and displaced about 600,000 people.It is important that as we enter the election year, we do so with caution and circumspection. That the country is already in &ldquo;campaign mode&rdquo; is not in doubt and we therefore need to tone down on political rhetoric, brinkmanship and sabre-rattling.Elections, like any other contest, have their own rules and regulations, which must be obeyed.The IEBC has a responsibility and a mandate to ensure that. Political contests should not be allowed to lead to any conflict. Kenya is a country governed by the rule of law and must resist attempts by some misguided individuals to lead to anarchy.Those with the responsibility of maintaining law and order such as the National Police Service and the National Cohesion and Integration Commission ought to take swift and decisive action against those propagating hate speech and polarising the country. Nobody is above the law and action ought to be taken against all lawbreakers, irrespective of their status or station in life.Political parties also have the responsibility of reining their errant members who engage in insults, hate speech and political thuggery.The country has in recent days been treated to the theatre of the absurd by an MP threatening a judge of the High Court and the person and office of the Chief Justice.This is perhaps the single biggest threat to democracy and the rule of law as the independence of the Judiciary is sacrosanct.Even more frightening is the silence of the Executive in the face of the violation of judicial independence. The principle of separation of powers guarantees the independence of the judiciary.In their decision-making, judges should have the freedom to decide cases impartially, in accordance with their interpretation of the law and the facts presented. They should be able to act without any restriction or improper influence.That the Majority leader in Parliament has opted to go hammer and tongs at a judge and the Chief Justice is a serious and near-fatal violation of the Constitution. This country, many of us would like to believe, has an Attorney General who is the principal legal adviser to the President and the Government of the Republic of Kenya. Where is his voice amidst this chaos? Why is the man silent in the face of this abomination? There appears to be a clear disconnect between the three arms of government and somebody somewhere must remedy the same urgently, failing which, the country will be thrown into a constitutional crisis.In the words of Edmund Burke, &ldquo;The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing. All tyranny needs to get a foothold is for people of good conscience to remain silent.&rdquo;All Kenyans, therefore, have a responsibility to maintain peace and speak out against injustice. The 2017 presidential and general election will be our acid test. It is our opportunity to break the chain of the continuous cycle of electoral violence every five years.The international community will be watching us closely. The option to swim or sink is ours alone.