Nairobi LV Luna ParkThis is an amusement park in Nairobi located between the Railways Golf Club and Uhuru Park. It is an ideal place to take the kids to enjoy a day of fun rides, face painting and delicious treats.Some of the activities at Lunar Park include: boat riding, Banana (swivel) Boat Ride, Electric Car Ride, Train ride, Horse ride and a variety of merry go round machines.Entry to Lunar park is free but rides attract a fee.The David Sheldrick Wildlife Trust, NAIROBIThe elephant nursery is located in the Nairobi National Park. They open to the public for one hour every day from 11am to noon excluding Christmas Day.Entrance to the orphanage is minimum Sh500 or $7 US dollars.Nairobi Mamba VillageLocated in Karen, about 13 Kilometers away from the city, Mamba Village is a great place to see crocodiles, ostriches, giraffes, and even rabbits in Nairobi) Activities range from bird watching, viewing the crocodiles, enjoying a picnic, camel, horse and boat riding, feeding the ostriches and a childrens playground.Entry fee is Sh280 for adult citizensNairobi Animal Orphanage and Safari WalkLocated in the Nairobi National Park, the orphanage hosts lions, cheetahs, hyenas, jackals, serval cats, rare Sokoke cats, warthogs, leopards, various monkeys, baboons and buffalo. Various birds can also be viewed including parrots, guinea fowls, crowned cranes and ostriches.The other option is the Safari Walk, with its raised wooden boardwalk that allows for uninterrupted views of the animals. Visitors can see a sample of the country&rsquo;s rich animal life including the rare bongo, white rhino and albino zebra as well as big cats, antelopes and primates. It is also home to some 150 species of local trees. There is also a children&rsquo;s museum.Entrance fees range from Sh125 to Sh215 for children and adult citizens and $13-22 USD for non-resident children and adults.The Giraffe Centre, NAIROBIHosting the highly endangered Rothschild&rsquo;s giraffe, the centre combines serious conservation with enjoyable activities. You can observe, hand-feed or even kiss one of the giraffes from a raised wooden structure, which is quite an experience. You may also spot warthogs snuffling about in the mud, and there&rsquo;s an interesting self-guided forest walk through the adjacent Gogo River Bird Sanctuary.Open from 9-5pm everyday including weekends and all public holidays.Charges range from Sh50 to Sh250 for children and adult residents; Sh500 - Sh1000 for children and adult non-residents.Ruma National Park, kisumuRuma National Park is the only terrestrial park in Nyanza Province. The park protects the only indigenous population of rare roan antelopes within Kenya. ranging from riverine woodland and rolling savannah to magnificent escarpments and towering cliffs, Ruma National Park promises undiscovered wildlife treasures and undisturbed peace.Entry for adults is Sh350 and for kids Sh200.Kisumu MusuemThe Kisumu Museum is a museum located in Kisumu, Kenya. Its exhibits focus on the natural and cultural history of Western Kenya. It features a collection of local flora and fauna, as well as a traditional Luo homestead.Charges are Sh500.Kisumu Impala SanctuaryThe sanctuary hosts impalas, the rare Sitatunga antelope as well as big cats, buffalos, giraffes, cheetahs and several primate species. The sanctuary is also home to five campsites all with spectacular views of Lake Victoria. Bird watching, nature walks and glass bottomed boat rides compliment the activities availed at the sanctuary.Entrance fee for resident adults is Sh215 and for kids is Sh125.Mamba Village Centre, NyaliMamba Village Centre in Nyali is East Africa&rsquo;s largest crocodile farm. Visitors can learn about the life cycle and behavior of these fascinating amphibians, and the center also offers horseback riding and a botanical garden with an aquarium.Entry charges are Sh140 and Sh280 for resident kids and adults; and Sh350 and Sh650 for non resident kids and adults.Fort Jesus, MOMBASABuilt in 1593-1596 by the Portuguese, Fort Jesus is a UNESCO World Heritage site and one of Mombasa&rsquo;s top tourist attractions. Italian architect, Cairati, designed the structure, which is one of the world&rsquo;s finest examples of 16th century Portuguese military architecture. Built in the shape of a man, the fort was given the name of Jesus as a clear religious reference.Entrance fees are Sh200 for adult citizens and Sh100 for children residentsWasini Island, mombasaGenerally reached by dhow, Wasini Island is a popular day trip from Mombasa. Dolphins regularly cruise these waters and passengers can stop to snorkel and dive the coral reefs along the way. Sightseeing opportunities include visiting Wasini Village, strolling around the coastal scrub where ancient Swahili ruins lie, exploring the exposed coral gardens, and dining on fresh seafood at the small restaurant.Rate per person: Kenya Residents - Sh7,350; Non residents - US$ 135Child (up to 11 years): Residents - Sh3,850; Non residents - US$ 70