The decision by the ODM supreme party organ to expel its rebellious governors and MPs, could, if upheld, trigger another &ldquo;Little General Election,&rdquo; reminiscent of the one held in 1966 following mass defections of MPs from KANU to the newly formed Jaramogi Oginga Odinga&rsquo;s opposition Kenya People&rsquo;s Union (KPU). The by-elections, if they were to happen, could be all important in that they would take place only eight months to the General Elections in 2017. They would as well send a strong message that the winning parties in these by-elections could as well brace for victories in 2017. If these by-elections were to take place, they would have immense impact on Coast party politics. Three of the 10 expellees are from the Coast. They are Kwale County Governor Salim Mvurya, Kwale Woman Representative Zainab Chidzuga and Likoni MP Masoud Mwahima. The fate of Kilifi North MP Gideon Mung&rsquo;aro and his Kilifi South counterpart Mustafa Iddi is yet to be determined. Mung&rsquo;aro and Iddi have been the most critics against ODM in the Coast region. They want Coast people to vote the Jubilee Alliance in 2017.ODM&rsquo;s decision to start the purge with Kwale County dissenters may have been influenced by political considerations, one of which being that ODM is already a political brand in the county, whereas JP still has the uphill task of popularizing its policies before mounting any credible campaign to win an election. In other words, Kwale was the easier target and the starting point for the purge.Kilifi County, which is the originator of the dissent against ODM, proves a hard nut to crack. Apart from the clash of JP and ODM politics, Kilifi County harbors multiple political players, including local parties like KADU-Asili and Shirikisho that have invariably participated in elections and won protest votes from both ODM and Jubilee. In effect, local parties have acted as buffer zones between the dominant two national parties.If by elections were to be held in Kwale County, Mvurya would face off with Kwale County Assembly Speaker, Sammy Ruwa--a prot&eacute;g&eacute; of Mombasa County Governor Hassan Joho. The other ODM aspirant would be Gereza Dena, who would have first to win the ODM nomination ticket alongside Ruwa. However, given Ruwa&rsquo;s close links with Joho, the Coast ODM Chair, his candidature for the ODM ticket can be guaranteed. Mvurya has himself protested that much as he would have wished to remain in ODM, his chances for winning the nomination ticket for the 2017 elections were nil.There other likely candidate for the gubernatorial seat would be Chirau Mwakwere, the long-serving Kwale County politician and now Kenya&rsquo;s Ambassador to Tanzania. Mwakwere would have two options&mdash;enter the race now in a by-election or wait for his fortunes in 2017. Numerous aspirants shall certainly emerge to challenge Chidzuga for the Woman Representative position in a likely by-election. One of these aspirants is ODM&rsquo;s Fatuma Masito. Overall, the impact of by-elections in Kwale County could be to trigger a chain of political change across the Coast region. For example, if Mvurya and Chidzuga were to be re-elected under JP, their victories would spill over to the other ODM controlled counties of Mombasa, Taita Taveta and Kilifi, weakening the ODM grip of this region. This would in turn have the effect of rendering ODM a lame duck in Coast politics and force party leaders to draw up new strategies to restore its lost glory before the 2017 general elections. On the other hand, if Mvurya and Chidzuga were to lose the by elections through JP, that would mark the beginning and the end of the party as an alternative to ODM in the Coast region. The push by JP leaders to dislodge ODM would also come to a cropper. JP would also be compelled to re-think its strategies as to how to reverse another ODM wave in this region in 2017.