Creativity is about connecting various elements in one meaningful form. Here's how two wonderful and so different women artists do it. One is English painter Rose Wylie, aged 82, and another is Brazilian sculptor Maria Nepomuceno, aged 40. Rose Wylie connects the child-like approach to drawing with the images from ordinary daily life, movies, magazines, anything at all, 'a bird, a beetle, the fantastic clothes worn by somebody on the bus'. She makes numerous drawings on a theme once she selects an image. Working intuitively from memory, she strives for an 'unsophisticated', 'after-image' effect, the image that only loosely reminds one of the original subject. "The drawing can take a long time," she says. "I throw a lot away. I don&rsquo;t like that 'taught' look. I don&rsquo;t like arty." She glues pieces of newspaper and fabric onto a massive canvas and begins applying paint directly onto it with her hands. Paintings appear 'gestural' and textural.Art critic Brian Sewell dismissed her work as 'a daub worthy of a child of four'. But the art critic got it wrong. Earlier this year, Wylie became a member of the Royal Academy of Arts. In 2014, she received the prestigious Wollaston Award, worth &pound;25,000, for her 'Herr Rehlinger in White Armour' painting (painted by Wylie aged 80)), and in 2015, just as prestigious, the John Moores Painting Prize, also worth &pound;25,000. But Rose has not always been so celebrated. Studying at an art school aged 21, she married her fellow student, moved to a red-brick cottage in quiet Kent, and 'making curtains, sofa covers and p&acirc;t&eacute;', brought up her three children. It is only when the children flew the nest, Rose went back to her career as an artist, graduating from the Royal College of Art at the age of 47. "Life without art is drab," says Wylie.She is influenced by Philip Guston, the American painter who in the late 1960s painted unusual cartoonish paintings. "His pictures were completely new and terribly exciting, very risky - and stunning. They had personality!" Wylie says. Her own quirky and unforgettable paintings - about as far from traditional easel painting as it is possible to get - are about personality, too. 'Personality' is what I think looking at the vibrant and seductive floor and wall-based fantastical installations of Maria Nepomuceno. She connects the traditional weaving techniques, industrial design and philosophy. Her techniques are based on rope weaving and straw braiding. She also throws in found materials, such as branches, twigs, ceramic, paint brushes, seed pods, vessels, hammocks, beads, bulbs and tubes. Using bright colours, she creates organic forms and assembles and re-assembles them into various pieces. The small beads are echoed in large, pearl-like spheres made of fiberglass. As she makes them, they crack and burst open, spilling their contents like seeds.Her designs suggest animals, plants, the human body and landscapes, all pulsating with energy. That tension she creates between natural and manmade, sensual and cerebral, makes her work at once static and rhythmic.The philosophy of the Nepomuceno's highly labor-intensive work is in the artist's desire to 'catch time and give it back to the viewer', as Maria herself says. She adds that 'the spiral', a central image and unifying motif of her work, speaks of 'the movement that is the same, but the one that always goes into a new path'. And the faults and the cracks in her fiberglass forms? They say: 'Failure is a source of opportunity, it gives things a new life!' Helps us to promote creativity in art, science and business in Kenya, contact Alla on contact@mobileartschoolinkenya.org