Upcoming goalkeeper Mark Thiwa is determined to make the most of his selection as one of the two players to travel to West Ham United after emerging the best at the Betway talent search that concluded last month. The 20 year old shot stopper who was attached to Nairobi County league club Githurai Sportiff until this year, said his dream is to make it in the professional ranks abroad but he would want to make a mark in the domestic scene if that does not materialise.&ldquo;From my days in school I wanted to be a footballer, though I acknowledge that chances to make it to the pro eleven is tough. &ldquo;I believe this opportunity with Betway has opened doors for me and I hope to make the most of it,&rdquo; said Thiwa who now trains with top flight side Mathare United and looks up to international goalkeepers Duncan Ochieng and David Okello of Tusker and Gor Mahia&rsquo;s Boniface Oluoch. Thiwa added that while training with the slum boys he has learnt a lot from goalkeepers&rsquo; Wycliffe Kasaya and Peter Odhiambo. This is an experience he hopes will hold him in good stead when he trains under the watchfull eyes of West Ham United coaches. The shot stopper who finished his secondary level studies at Ruiru Senior High School last year will be travelling to London early next year alongside 21 year-old Moses Kinyanjui chosen from Shanzu in Mombasa.Kinyanjui started playing while 7 years-old back in school, the attacker revealed during the talent search trials. He missed the first one due to lack of transport fare. Betway offered him a second chance where they worked more tirelessly to get him the fare to travel to Nairobi.&ldquo;It has not been easy to get this far and am determined to make the most of this rare opportunity. There are many more equally talented or more talented players who for various reasons might not have got this opportunity so I count myself lucky and will work hard to make it a success&rdquo; said Kinyanjui who trains and plays for Shanzu United.This is a local team in the neighborhood.Kinyanjui is a keen admirer of Gor Mahia playmaker Francis Kahata and Luka Modric of Real Madrid. He dreams of playing at a an international club in Europe and possibly West Ham United.