Tourism players at the Coast are expecting increased international guests this festive season, a boost to the the industry which has largely relied on domestic tourism.Hoteliers said business has been performing better than last year since the onset of the high season in July.Kenya Coast Tourist Association chairperson Mohammed Hersi said bed occupancy since October has hovered between 70 and 90 per cent. &ldquo;Currently we are operating on an average of 90 per cent bed occupancy in many hotels in the region. Domestic tourism however takes a bigger percentage,&rdquo; Hersi said in a telephone interview. On Tuesday, beach and safari tourism got a boost after a cruise ship, MS Silver Cloud, called at the port of Mombasa with 438 guests. They comprised of 216 tourists and 222 crew members. Majority of them were those from Europe and the US via Seychelles. Hersi said: &ldquo;The arrival of the tourists is a stamp of approval that Kenya is a quality destination.&rdquo; The Kenya Tourism Board said the sector has been on recovery since 2014 after battering from travel advisories following a spate of terror threats linked to militia al Shabaab. Arrivals through cruise ships, KTB assistant communications manager Ng&rsquo;eno Kimutai said, has been growing gradually from about 500 guests recorded in 2014. &ldquo;The number has gone up, and by September this year, we had received over 1,880 cruise tourists. We are hoping the number will go up as we have several ships lined up,&rdquo; Kimutai said. &ldquo;We are expecting more vessels to arrive in Mombasa up until January next year.&rdquo; Hoteliers are, however, worried about the state of infrastructure at the Coast. Hersi, also chief executive Heritage Hotels, has called on the authorities to quickly fix the Mombasa-Nairobi Highway at the Taru section, where construction works have been ongoing for months. &ldquo;The contractor has taken quite some time. This has been causing heavy traffic and hence affecting the safari trips to Tsavo from Mombasa,&rdquo; he said. This, he said, poses a challenge in marketing Tsavo East and West safari destinations. In 2013 and 2014, the region was hit by the sporadic al Shabab terror attacks leading to travel advisories by key source markets, including the US and the UK. The advisories have since been lifted. In May 2014, for example, the UK evacuated about 500 nationals from a Mombasa hotel, fuelling cancellation of charter flights and cruise ship trips to Mombasa. The region was estimated to have lost more than 70 per cent international guests, and has since then been depending largely on domestic tourists.Last December, the government announced a Sh1.2 billion incentive package for charter flights at Mombasa and Malindi airports effective January this year.This was in a bid to recover lost business from tourist charter airlines which had fled following unending threats from the terror group, al Shabaab. Landing fees at the two airports were waived for two and a half years with a further passenger subsidy of $30 (about Sh3,057 ) per seat for international visitors disembarking in Kenya.