Many years ago, I used to work at a place where we had this senior boss, an expatriate, who couldn&rsquo;t stand seeing people take a break from work for even a second. It was a busy place, but if ever this boss came across say, two colleagues standing by the water dispenser having a brief chat in the time it takes to fill those teeny tiny plastic water cups, she would walk up to the two workers and ask what they were doing. The rule of thumb was not to say anything but to return to your desk immediately. Dare say a word and she&rsquo;d turn pale and you my friend would make it onto her list &ndash; it was not a good list.The situation with this boss was such that anytime she was skulking in the corridors, you had to be at your desk, working. And even if you didn&rsquo;t have any actual work to do, what was important to her was that you &ldquo;appear to be working&rdquo;.The Memsahib did eventually leave the company and, I believe, the country. Everyone was relieved.Lately, however, I have been having this niggling feeling that she&rsquo;s back, a boss at NTSA, and lording it over some hapless NTSA staffer with her cold stare and her &ldquo;appear to be working&rdquo; policy. It is the only reason I can think of to explain NTSA&rsquo;s two-helmets-and-a-motorcycle rule.The rule states: No motorcycle will be sold or transferred without two helmets and two reflective jackets. Fail to do so and the consequences will be severe.Something you should know about motorcycle helmets, they come in different sizes, ranging from extra small all way to extra large, and it is important when wearing a helmet, it is the right size. Now if you run a shop that primarily sells motorcycles, what helmet size do you stock that&rsquo;s the right size for unforeseen future customers? But here&rsquo;s what&rsquo;s worrying, with this rule, what guarantee is there that the person buying a motorcycle will use the helmets and jackets that come with the sale? Haven&rsquo;t we all seen boda boda riders with helmets propped up on handlebars or strapped to the bike, helmets not worn?NTSA should just get to work and attack this boda boda rule-breaking head-on. Show the same zeal you do when pouncing on motorists going 1km/h above the speed limit; the same bidii you put in holding-up motorists at night with a breathalyser to the face.Focus on helmet wearing, not helmet ownership. Save lives.