According to a local daily, the Kikuyu Council of Elders don&rsquo;t want to see Deputy President William Ruto anywhere near President Uhuru Kenyatta during his visits across the country, as he goes on a charm offensive to secure himself a second term.Anyone with political hair on their chests knows why the alarm bells are ringing so loudly. The elders, and the Central region as a whole, see doom when they look ahead. It is getting clearer that President Uhuru may not get back to power.They don&rsquo;t see any hope of Muthamiki renewing his tenancy of the House on the Hill. They think &lsquo;the problem&rsquo; is sitting next to their King, and they want him out. Uhuru&rsquo;s Armageddon is Musalia Mudavadi&rsquo;s National Super Alliance, designed to pulverise the Jubilee Party.NASA is hell-bent on making Uhuru the first one-term President in Kenya&rsquo;s history. Before NASA came up, JP handlers had been falling over themselves dismissing and mocking the opposition as nothing but a bunch of confused nitwits who could not challenge Kamwana&rsquo;s administration.The Deputy President and other JP busybodies have often been quoted saying the opposition is busy quarreling among themselves about whshould be the presidential candidate, while Jubilee is already planning for the 2022 elections. Before NASA, the 2017 general election was a done deal for JP. Little did they know that the opposition was busy calculating how best to kick them out of power Now, JP is staring at defeat and worse, they don&rsquo;t know how to react. That is why you see the President and his DP running scared all over the place, launching imaginary projects and blaming everybody for their imminent defeat.A leading daily recently reported that 80 per cent of the road networks launched by the Jubilee administration in the past one month are unbudgeted for. Some have not even started a year after being commissioned.Back to the Kikuyu elders&rsquo; displeasure with DP Ruto, they feel that the President will go down next year if he continues to stick with Ruto. But what is the DP&rsquo;s sin?From the elders&rsquo; perspective, Ruto has become a liability to Uhuru&rsquo;s reelection bid for obvious reasons. They want him reduced to an altar boy in the Jubilee campaigns. Although the Kalenjin elders are yet to react to these developments, waiting for them to do is like waiting for Santa to visit Mecca. That won&rsquo;t happen because of the divisions afflicting them. They are as divided as their political leaders.Will Uhuru heed the elders advice or will he ignore them? Most probably, he will call their bluff for now. But with time, he may just remove the kid gloves with which he handles his deputy and think of his political survival.Unfortunately, it could be too late to shove Ruto aside. It will be a political suicide although the elders seem to propose Baringo Senator Gideon Moi as his replacement. It is imperative to note that the President made a personal and desperate call to Moi early this month, pleading with him not to desert him in his hour of need. Moi will only back Uhuru if he gives him the deputy&rsquo;s position. Anything less will see the Kanu chairman teaming up with NASA, a union he has recently been warming up to.The council of elders think the DP should be left to work hard and regain his grip on the Rift Valley vote bloc.The elders also plan to visit retired President Daniel Moi. Why now? These are no coincidences. They are carefully mooted steps to sidestep someone thought to be carrying minimal political clout compared to 2013, now that the Rift Valley is divided vertically and horizontally.Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto has run away with the South Rift as Senator Moi holds the North Rift by the jugular. Someone is left gasping for breath with an attitude the size of the Sahara Desert.Need I say more?