Kenyans may need a brave jurist to explain to them what happens when institutions break the law, and when oversight agencies collude in a self-preservation cover-up. Should Kenyans mount a violent civilian coup given that &lsquo;eating&rsquo; teargas only amounts to duplicity?The Elections Laws (Amendments) Act, 2016 is rightly criticised for setting unrealistic deadlines for the IEBC. Participants in the palaver can&rsquo;t explain why commissioners who have since resigned still call the shots.We are not sure that we are not being played when the IEBC Selection Committee cancels and postpones the interviews of the electoral agency commissioners and chairperson. Our lamentations notwithstanding, the opposition demands the Issack Hassan-led team leave office or, at least, stop meddling in the procurement process. They know they&rsquo;re on the wrong side of the law they created, under the influence of political hubris.It emerges the inertia that influenced the amendments is now haunting its progenitors. The IEBC is sitting pretty, not bothering with the collation of voters&rsquo; biometric data. Thirty days have expired and it hasn&rsquo;t engaged a reputable firm to audit the voter register and submit a report to Parliament as required by the Act under Section 8A ( 3 ). This is a violation both Jubilee and Cord won&rsquo;t talk about because their Joint Select Committee shares the embarrassment.Since when did shame become a defense against the law, or even more dreadful, a moral compass of our politicians? As it stands now, there is a case in court filed by a proxy to ensure the Elections Laws (Amendments) Act, 2016 is not implemented. The case is to ensure the Act is rendered redundant. To a large extent, these snipers have succeeded in stunting the IEBC without firing a single shot.However, such espionage might not last. A move to amend the new Act will come from the most unexpected source the Jubilee voting machine in the National Assembly. You see, by sheer magic, President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto managed to cast a spell that kept their leaders in a trance as they dissolved their parties and joined a cobbled the Jubilee PartySection 10 of the Elections Act, 2011 was amended to allow the IEBC to conduct nominations of political parties upon request. To mollify the herd mentality of our politicians, President Uhuru and DP Ruto latched onto this amendment, promising naysayers free and fair primaries, because the IEBC will conduct the nominations. However, the reality is now sinking in. They were herded into a slaughterhouse. They can&rsquo;t opt out because of the same amended Act.The Act doesn&rsquo;t say who will fund the IEBC to &lsquo;manage&rsquo; party primaries, given the conflict of interest and lack of capacity. There is a vague reference to &ldquo;in accordance with Article 88 of the Constitution, which could mean raiding the public coffers.Of interest, however, is the realisation by Jubilee aspirants that requesting the IEBC to conduct nominations is kujipeleka kichinjio [ taking yourself to a slaughterhouse]. Discreet but intense mobilisation is ongoing to delete the bit of Section 10 that gives party mandarins power to have the IEBC carry out their bidding.&ldquo;We know our leaders have preferred candidates. In our strongholds, you only need a nomination and you&rsquo;re as good as elected. Some of us know we&rsquo;re on the chopping board and the only way to equalise the ground, is to remove the IEBC from the equation, &rdquo; a desperate MP from the Rift valley recently said. I&rsquo;m certain this apprehension is shared across the opposition, especially the requirement for parties to submit lists of those seeking nominations to the electoral commission, thus restricting party hopping.&ldquo;The moment you&rsquo;re on a party list as an aspirant, you are legally barred from contesting in nominations of another party. We aren&rsquo;t going to be tied to Jubilee like goats.&rdquo;That the matter is indeed a threat has prompted Uhuru to plead fairness in nominations and job rewards for the vanquished. Me thinks we can do better. That Act is a mish-mash of impossibilities. Parliament must hence seize the moment before it throws the country into more electoral violence.The writer is a communications, publications and conflict management specialist, University of Nairobi