Doctors on Wednesday walked out of negotiations with the government after a court order was issued to arrest any officials from the doctors union participating in the countrywide strike.Industrial Court judge Helen Wasilwa also ordered the officials to appear in court next Tuesday to show cause as to why they should not be committed to civil jail for disobeying a court order. &ldquo;I will not fail to issue warrant of arrests if they fail to appear in court," Wasilwa said.KMPPDU secretary general Ouma Oluga told the Star on phone that they are not going to negotiate with the government "because it seems that they do not want to address [health workers'] demands". &ldquo;After that court order, we do not care anymore; we are not going to negotiate anymore. They should also know that we are not going back to work.The Collective Bargaining Agreement must be implemented first.&rdquo; Oluga said.'Total paralysis'He also warned that there would be a total paralysis in the health sector next week as doctors working from the private sector will join them.&ldquo;Next week doctors working in private hospitals will be joining us in solidarity. If the government is serious about healthcare in this country, then they should implement the collective bargaining agreement that they signed three years ago,&rdquo; Oluga said. At least 19 patients have died in Mombasa, Kisumu, Busia, Nakuru, Eldoret and Meru counties since the onset of the doctors strike on Monday. In some hospitals, patients were discharged at the beginning of the strike, while in some the wards are empty as their is no one to look after the patients. The dire situation of patients in the country, has seen take to twitter using the hashtag #BlameItOnThePresident, #UhuruPayDoctors asking the President to intervene on the matter. Uhuru, who was on tour in Makindu, appealed to doctors and nurses to return to work as they look for a way to solve the stalemate. He said they&rsquo;re ready to negotiate in good faith and the medics shouldn&rsquo;t continue putting lives at risk."Our doctors and nurses should know that the government is ready for negotiations and we therefore plead with them to be considerate of human lives. Let us not give ultimatums at the expense of close to 20 innocent lives." He said. Read: As doctors strike continues, KOT demand Uhuru help to stop deathsThe contentious CBA between the ministry and the union sought to review of job groups, promotions, deployment and transfer of medical officers, and remuneration among others.According to the agreement, Oluga says the basic salaries of the lowest-paid doctor should increase from Sh35,000 to Sh107,000, and Sh109,000 to nearly Sh378,000 for the highest-earning.Nurses agree to end strikeNurses on Wednesday agreed to negotiate with the government to end their strike which had also entered its third day.Kenya National Union of Nurses secretary general Seth Panyako said they will meet Health CS Cleopa Mailu at Afya House to iron out the issues that led to the industrial action.Negotiations between the Health ministry and health workers backfired on Monday after the latter's representatives failed to show up for a meeting called by Mailu.More on this: Striking nurses agree to hold talks with CS MailuRead: Talks to end countrywide strike flop as doctors skip Mailu meeting