The other day, MP Millie Odhiambo hurled very unflattering insults at President Uhuru. Without blinking an eye Odhiambo called the President mwizi &ndash; thief -, fisi &ndash; hyena and mshenzi &ndash; savage.Though President Uhuru has said he will ignore the insults, by hurling the insults, clearly, Millie Odhiambo was spoiling for a fight.From her tone and demeanor, it is also clear that Millie Odhiambo was not insulting Uhuru the person, but Uhuru the president. And though insults don&rsquo;t fall within the realm of democratic freedoms, if Odhiambo is arrested for insulting the head of state, she will claim violation of her freedom of expression.Unfortunately, though freedom of expression should be jealously guarded all the time, it must never be used to provoke and incite conflict and violence between individuals, communities or nations.Though the charge of inciting will be denied, to any person with experience and knowledge of history, Odhiambo&rsquo;s political or ethnic insults were hurled in public with the express purpose of inciting people. Though a spark, in an ethnically charged atmosphere, insults or assassinations have ignited wars and political prairie fires.Though it can be said Odhiambo&rsquo;s insults are mere hot water that does not burn a house, words that don&rsquo;t break a bone or as President Uhuru put it: noises of frogs that don&rsquo;t cows from drinking water, there are three reasons why insults could ignite conflagration in Kenya.First, there are many people who think, if you can insult people, you can also fight them. Two, we are in an election period when Kenyans are ethnically charged and easily provoked into ethnic conflict. And three, when leaders are insulted, people think their communities are also insulted and need their protection.Given these dangers, it was reckless for media houses to directly transmit these insults from Odhiambo to public raw and unedited. In advanced democracies like US where media freedom is more advanced than ours, certain words are never allowed direct transmission to the public and are edited as they are uttered.Yet we are told these insults were justified because President Uhuru had insulted Raila during his tour of Central Kenya. If so, it was not right for President Uhuru to insult Raila or anybody else anywhere in this country. But did President Uhuru use similar language against Raila?Even if he did, the logic of retaliation is flawed and must never be allowed as a defense of Raila or anybody else that is insulted by another. What would happen if President Uhuru insulted Raila, Odhiambo insulted the President, Kamau insulted Raila and Onyango insulted the president again? From insulting, Odhiambo, Kamau, Onyongo and Njoroge would start fighting in defense of their leaders and Kenya would burn.We have seen it here and elsewhere that from mere insults, biases and discriminations, people can fight a big war. Indeed, this is exactly what happened here prior to the out break of post election violence in 2007 and 2008. Ethnic suspicions and hostilities grew as we accused one another of plotting to rig elections, then we insulted and counter insulted our ethnic leaders and communities until chaos and fighting exploded like a volcano.But despite saying NEVER AGAIN to the ethnic Armageddon that followed, we are slowly and surely inching back to it as if drawn by a collective death wish. Is this what we want from coming elections?Though the Kikuyu say gutiri wirutaga na ruongi - nobody learns from the pain of another &ndash; if we will not learn from our own post election violence, maybe can learn from Rwanda&rsquo;s genocide. Though God has saved us from many self-inflicted tragedies, it is unlikely he will save us again if we continue to tempt him with another tragedy.If we think because we survived the last post election violence, we can do it again and survive, we are wrong. As the Swahili proverb says: kupona nyongo si kupona ndigano - to survive the Bile disease is not survive East Coast Fever.By condemning insults in our political language, I am not arguing that President Uhuru, Raila or any other leader should not be criticized. I am saying we must use civil language not insults to criticize leaders or one another. After all, insults do not add but subtract value from our arguments and criticisms of other people.Finally, when we criticize leaders, we must guard not to destroy their offices which we need. When we criticize the president or any other office holder, we must guard not to disrespect or insult the office which we need as symbol of national unity. If we destroy the presidency as we criticize the president, things will fall apart.