Nurses have called off their week-long strike after their union struck a return-to-work formula with the government. Kenya National Union of Nurses chairman John Bii yesterday said they are ready to resume work immediately.&ldquo;We have decided not to hold the country at ransom because we got part of the bargain we were pushing for, so we are going to restore nursing services across the country,&rdquo; he said.Bii thanked the national and county governments for seeking solutions to the issues raised.&ldquo;We thank all stakeholders who have helped us reach the agreement. Our secretary general Seth Panyako refused to be part of us, but we cannot hold the lives of Kenyans at ransom because one of us does not want to sign an agreement,&rdquo; Bii said.KNUN deputy secretary general Maurice Odhiambo said the agreement includes an increase in nursing service allowances by between Sh20,000 and Sh15,000.&ldquo;All nurses in job groups G - L will get an increase of Sh20,000 and those in group M and above will get Sh15,000 and the increase will be paid in two tranches of 60 per cent and 40 per cent,&rdquo; he said.Odhiambo said the first portion will be paid in January 2017 and the second on July 1, 2017. He said they had agreed with the government that nurses will not be victimised after they resume work. Health CS Cleopa Mailu said their services would greatly help patients in Tana River and Taita Taveta, where there is a cholera outbreak.On Saturday Panyako said union officials will present the progress of the talks to the national governing council, which would then decide whether to call off the strike. &ldquo;We are still on strike,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;That offer (from the ministry) will be presented to the national governing council, which will be meeting on Monday.&rdquo; The national government was represented by Mailu, county governments by Kisii Governor James Ongwae and KNUN was represented by several members. The union had called for a 21-day strike to press for better terms, among them a salary increase. Doctors are still on strike.Last week, KMPDU officials walked out of talks with the government after Industrial Court judge Helen Wasilwa ordered them to appear in court next Tuesday. They are expected to show cause as to why they should not be committed to civil jail for disobeying a court order stopping the strike.