Principal Secretary Richard Lesiyampe yesterday said it is worrying that many coffee growers societies have not insured the &ldquo;high-value commodity&rdquo;, of which more than 70 per cent is produced on small scale. Kenyan coffee beans are used in export markets to blend others from different countries. &ldquo;Although coffee theft is a criminal activity, some degree of laxity has been cited in most of the cases reported especially those affecting the co-operative societies,&rdquo; Lesiyampe said. &ldquo;There is a lot of excessive storage of parchment at the factory level and uncontrolled access to the parchment store.&rdquo; He spoke after farmers in Nyeri, Kirinyaga and Muranga counties complained of coffee theft in co-operative societies. The PS said some 467 bags, mainly of parchment coffee valued at Sh5.2 million, were reported to have been stolen. Nyeri is the hardest hit, with 246 bags stolen between January 20 and November 11 this year. Kirinyaga was second with 221 bags missing. Lesiyampe says thieves steal cherry from coffee farms, coffee parchment from cooperative societies and to a lesser extent at the coffee estates. This, he added, has resulted in huge income losses to coffee growers, undermining their efforts to increase production, which is currently 45,000 metric tonnes annually. &ldquo;This situation can be attributed to the fact that coffee remains the property of the farmers even after delivery to the stores, inspite of the farmers not having physical custody to the commodity,&rdquo; the PS said. Speaking at Kilimo House, Lesiyampe said the ministry has drafted a circular with guidelines to curb coffee theft, especially during this period when the crop peaks. He said: &ldquo;The ministry through AFA (Agriculture and Food Authority) in liaison with the affected county governments, will also amend the coffee industry regulations to include more deterrent penalties for the culprits to curb this.&rdquo;He further recommended thorough vetting of the management committees and growers' employees, particularly security staff, and proposed installation of CCTV cameras and motion detectors. &ldquo;Coffee growers should also avoid excessive quantities of coffee in the stores to thwart the coffee theft and secure factory premises and storage facilities with controlled access,&rdquo; Lesiyampe said.