President Uhuru Kenyatta, December 12, 2016Hon. Mwangi Kiunjiri, MGH, Cabinet Secretary, Ministry of Devolution and Planning had this to say the in the Foreword of the2016 Devolution and Public Participation in Kenya: Civic Education Trainer&rsquo;s Curriculum for Learning Institutions:One way of enhancing the capacity of the public to effectively participate in governance is through civic education. Citizens need to be provided with the right information that will enable them to effectively participate in public affairs and national development. Article 33(1) (a) of the constitution states that every person has the right to freedom of expression which includes freedom to seek, receive or impart information or ideas. Civic education will ensure that citizens have enhanced knowledge, understanding and ownership of the constitution.Double-speak right there! Moreover, the Preface of the same publication notes:After the promulgation of the Constitution, the Kenya National Integrated Civic Education (KNICE) Programme (under the then Ministry of Justice, National Cohesion and Constitutional Affairs) was initiated to provide civic education on the constitution. So is civic education a binary (either foreign interference or citizen empowerment) or a duality (both)? Could this not be another play by a consummate political prestidigitator to obscure and delegitimize by allusion and suggestion? Less than nine months before the next general elections, especially due to the close-to- zero public ratings on the so-called fight against corruption, public regard for Uhuruto seems to be rapidly dwindling. Notice the public odium and political opprobrium for Uhuruto that the tag &ldquo;loot&rdquo; has more firmly attached itself as key to its identity, personality and character. The cartoonists are almost daily going to town with it; there is now a growing pick of disreputably juicy tags that can be used to quite accurately parody Uhuruto: such as, Lootuhurutocracy, Uhurulootorutocracy, Uhurutolootocracy. Characteristically, instead of frontally and directly addressing the root causes of its rapidly diminishing public reputation (as Cabinet Secretary for Education Fred Matiang&rsquo;i so ably did with regard to examinations integrity in the country), Uhuruto has instead turned to its tried and tested familiar modus operandi of robustly engaging in propaganda and disinformation. And this is how this particular playbook works. First, create a sense of siege; a fear that we are under attack &ndash; hence the finger-pointing towards &ldquo;foreign interference&rdquo; with regard to civic education. The idea here is to trigger a siege mentality that we are about to be overwhelmed, overrun and overturned by a sinister enemy or adversary. This should rouse and renew a national sense of outrage. The paradox is conveniently disregarded that the regime is itself very happy, indeed delighted, to receive funds and other forms of support from the same &ldquo;foreign powers&rdquo;: is it, for example, so soon forgotten the proud recent public display of receiving military materiel from US Ambassador Robert Godec?Second, create a bogey-man. Cue the attack on civic society: one of Uhurutolootocracy&rsquo;s favorite punching bags outside Raila Odinga (Raira!) as the root of all evil in Kenya. Indeed, digital spin-doctor and the media Rottweiler for the regime Dennis Itumbi very adroitly did this when he baptized &ldquo;civil society&rdquo; &ldquo;evil society&rdquo; in the run up to the 2013 general elections. It should not be lost that Itumbi&rsquo;s principal and puppeteer-in-chief referred to civic education activities in his Jamburi Day speech as &ldquo;ukora&rdquo; (criminality, wrong-doing or calumny). This ensures that there is in place a visible &ldquo;enemy&rdquo; for the gullible but cheering masses to stone. Third, those engaged in the legitimate and constitutionally protected exercise of conducting civic education are both diverted from this exercise as they have to defend themselves and also become too hot a potato for donors to fund. Donors, as we have learnt over the years, are a very fickle bunch. The likes of Smith Hempstone and Bernd Mutzelberg who had the spine and cajones to talk truth to power at critical national moments come a dime a dozen; a very rare species indeed. Hence, there is a paralytic effect on the sector: sectoral asphyxiation ensues. Paralysis means citizens are unable to, to borrow from Bob Marley, emancipate themselves from their mental slavery: for they remain ignorant, cognitively infirm and intellectually impoverished. Whereas the original sins at independence were identified as ignorance, disease and poverty, these are now the ore which our elite continue to cynically mine to ensure their over-lordship over us. 53 years on, we may be independent but freedom remains an elusive aspiration. For freedom does require enlightenment. Ngure wa Gachanja is a human rights and democratic governance practitioner. The views expressed in this column are entirely his own and in no way represent or articulate those of any organizations he may be associated with.