I am a sales representative with FMD East Africa, a leading farm machinery distributor. I have worked for the company for 14 years at the head office in Nakuru. I market and sell Massey Ferguson tractors and various agricultural implements, such as Grimme potato planters and harvesters, Baldan ploughs harrows and planters, as well as Jacto sprayers. FMD holds clinics every month around the country, where we carry out free inspection of Massey Ferguson tractors and demonstrate the best use of implements. We also guide farmers on good farming practices for profitable crop production. What time do you wake up?I get up at 5.15am and pray, thanking the Almighty for another day.What do you do after waking up? After waking up, the first thing I do is exercise for about 30 minutes, then I take a shower and get ready to go to work.What do you have for breakfast? I have my breakfast at 6.30am. Normally, I have a cup of tea with toast and occasionally some sweet potatoes.When do you leave for work?I leave for work by 6.50am. I get to the office by 7.30am. The first thing I do is go through the dailies to catch up with the news. Then I check my emails and reply to any that need attention.Describe your typical day at work After sending emails, I make calls to customers for potential sales. I usually keep a diary with follow-up calls. I write pro-forma invoices and close deals where possible. I book appointments with customers in the field and attend to walk-in customers at our showroom in Nakuru, where we have a large selection of tractors and farming implements. On some days, I schedule visits to farmers in the field. I also follow up on any pending deals.What do you have for lunch?When I am at work, I simply have a sandwich and a fruit. When I am out visiting a customer, I have no fixed time for lunch because sometimes visits to the farm can take a whole day. On such days, I will eat when the food is available.What is your evening routine? Two days in a week, I meet up with colleagues working in the same field to network and exchange ideas. When I am not in the field, I normally get home by 7pm. I relax, watch the day&rsquo;s news and catch up on the day with my loved ones as we have supper.What do you do on weekends?I watch rugby on Saturdays when my team (Nakuru RFC) is playing. I also follow the English Premier league as I catch up with friends. On Sunday morning, I go to church with my family and spend the rest of the day relaxing with them. Occasionally, we plan a road trip and enjoy the countryside.