I am deeply troubled when a supposedly qualified economist seeks to subvert facts as has been done in this article. Number one, the writer attempts to analyze the medical care industry based on a competitive market model. Competitive market model assumes that there are no imposed restrictions on supply and demand of services in the market. She argues about rational allocation of resources and rational consumer choices in reference to supposed unaffordability of what the doctors are demanding. She further implies that demand for health care services and by extension health care workers is price elastic, meaning that the demand for these services will only exist up to a given price (cost) beyond which the demand drops significantly . This implication is drawn when she argues that the country will opt to train and employ less health care workforce as a consequence of the high wages demanded by the health care workers. Kenneth J Arrow (a renowned American Economist and a Nobel Prize winner in Economics), in his article 'Uncertainty and the welfare economics of medical care' argues that the operations of the medical care industry differ from the norm. The norm being the competitive market model that economists would usually use for purposes of comparison. This is because the medical care industry has serious restrictions both on supply and demand. Supply is restricted because the strict licensing policies and long and grueling training period act as significant barriers to entry to other 'would be' suppliers. The nature of the demand is also such that a sick person would not have time and opportunity to shop around for a more efficient health care service and if they could, they wouldn't have the necessary information to decide what an efficient or cost effective health care service is. Therefore, by drawing conclusions based on analysis using the competitive market model, the writer completely misses the mark. May I also add that in a country with a serious shortage of health workforce, and a heavy burden of disease, the demand for health care services and by extension health workforce will remain price inelastic for a long time, that is, the demand will not sharply reduce as a result of increased cost in training and retaining the workers. Health care being a social good, its benefits go far beyond what can be measured in monetary terms alone. It is therefore misleading to take a purely financial angle in doing the cost-benefit analysis and ignore the broader economic impact. The writer also erroneously argues that the only way the government can increase its fiscal space to fund the implementation of this CBA is through resource re-prioritization, that is, diverting money meant for other things like roads etc. Fiscal space refers to the capacity of government to provide additional budgetary resources for a desired purpose without any prejudice to the sustainability of its financial position. The writer fails to acknowledge the other ways of increasing fiscal space as per the fiscal diamond, notably, improving efficiency by reducing wastage (that arises through theft). This article is a clever attempt to twist the facts, but as the writer rightly observes, facts are stubborn. The writer is a Dental Surgeon and Healthcare Management Practitioner Email:ericdhmb@gmail.com