The Kenya women&rsquo;s cricket national team hope to qualify for the 2017 International Cricket Council (ICC) women&rsquo;s World Cup.After winning the International Women&rsquo;s T20 Cup in Sharjah, United Arab Emirates, the girls are upbeat to win the qualifiers and make their maiden appearance at the global level. This was the team&rsquo;s first trophy won outside Kenya.Africa&rsquo;s qualification tournament is scheduled for April 2017 at a yet to be announced venue while the World Cup is slated for June 26 to July 23 in five locations across England. Africa will qualify one team to the World Cup.Being in their best form, skipper Daisy Wairimu said they are determined to make a name for Kenya and will capitalise on their recent performances come the assignments.&ldquo;We do not underrating any team. All teams are tough and we do not leave anything to chance. We are passionate about the game, motivated by this win and we are yearning to make it to the World Cup. It is achievable,&rdquo; intimated Wairimu, who led the national squad to beating UAE by five wickets in the T20 show in Sharjah.Stressing that Kenya can win the ticket to the World Cup, coach Lameck Onyango said the difference between Kenya and South Africa is that the latter has played a lot of international matches as compared to us.Cricket Kenya (CK) president Jackie Janmohammed said the girls are mellow for the global stage, and her association has lined up build up matches with several teams in Europe.&ldquo;Teams from Europe will visit to play in friendly matches. The girls will also travel out for exposure. We are going to give you all the necessary support that will help the team do well and get to the World Cup,&rdquo; said Janmohammed, who was so excited about the girls&rsquo; win. She said she is optimistic about the girls making it to the World Cup.Jackie rewarded the girl on a personal capacity as a woman with US$100 each at a luncheon in Nairobi for reaching the semis and winning the trophy. Esther Wangari and Mary Wamboi Lady were also feted for putting up a good show.