Shujaa have been drawn against Fiji, France and Japan in a tricky Pool B of the second round of the HSBC World Rugby Sevens Series in CapeTown this weekend.Kenyans confront France in the opener on Saturday at 12:43pm before taking on Olympic champions Fiji at 4:26pm. They wrap up their group stage matches against Japan at 7:40pm. Kenya lost to France 14- 27 and struggled to beat Japan 17-7 in the preliminary round of the just concluded Dubai Sevens.Fresh from winning Dubai Sevens, South Africa, who seem to be in perfect form this season, have been pitted against Australia, USA and Russia in Pool A . South Africa beat Fiji 26- 14 to lift the Dubai Sevens title with Saebelo Senatla topping the chart with 55 points. Pool C has England, New Zealand Argentina and Canada while Africa Sevens champions Uganda, having maintained top status in the series, are in Pool D alongside Scotland, Samoa and Wales. Having undergone a baptism of fire , head coach Innocent Simiyu will have to work on his side after a poor start in the tournament, where his charges finished 12th overall, winning two matches in the group stages and collecting a mere five points. The result was way below his expectations, having hoped to reach Cup quarters.Indiscipline during breakdowns, poor defence, poor decision making and handling errors cost the team heavily, falling to a composed Mike Friday s USA side 19-21 in the Challenge Trophy semi-final. England won the bronze trophy after thrashing Wales 38-10 while USA won the Challenge Trophy beating Samoa 38- 10.Shujaa lacked the expertise of Collins Injera, Sammy Oliech, Oscar Ouma and Oscar Ayodi. The four were unavailable and being his first test, Simiyu opted for the services of younger players.Meanwhile, the Kenya Lionesses jetted back into the country yesterday afternoon after losing to Tribe Sevens in the bronze final during their Invitational International Category in Dubai. Head coach Kelvin Wambua has called for the KRU to give the team more exposure to enable them perform better. We dominated possession and territory but simply lacked the killer instinct. We need to finish off matches, he said.