Following the Africa Union Commission debate at the AU capital Addis Ababa last week, Africa agrees now more than ever before that the choice of the next AUC chair is too important to get wrong.The position primarily shapes the continent&rsquo;s economic, trade, political, security and social agenda. The AUC chair is central in mobilising common positions on matters of global importance and those needing consensus.The AUC chair also represents and champions our united voice on the global scene. Initialising the implementation of Agenda 2063, Africa&rsquo;s political and socio-economic development blueprint, is a key plank, as the first 10-year plan is critical.Dr Hannington Gaya had a candid conversation with Foreign Affairs CS Amina Mohamed on the sidelines of her campaigns, on how her leadership will handle the immense challenge that is Africa.What is your view of Africa at the moment?Today, Africa is faced with a plethora of challenges. Many countries, including the so-called regional anchors, are themselves lurching from one crisis to another, consumed by internal pressures and crises, as well as major political and economic troubles, many of them self-inflicted. A common thread running through all of them is the lack of visionary leadership with pan-African conviction.Why do you think this is your moment?During the 27th Summit in Kigali, Rwanda, there were murmurs among some members that the candidates then were not necessarily representative of Africa&rsquo;s challenges. Hence, the moving of the elections to Addis Ababa at the tail-end of January 2017. It is now more important than ever for the AUC to have the best leadership.Who is the best candidate?I feel, with humility, that I am one of the candidates who fits the Agenda 2063 template. I am a legal expert with a Master of Laws degree and currently Kenya&rsquo;s Foreign Affairs CS. As Cabinet Secretary, I have overseen Africa&rsquo;s successful hosting of critical trade, investment and development conferences, in particular the WTO&rsquo;s Tenth Ministerial Conference last year, the 14th Session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD 14) in July and the 6th Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD VI) in August. These achievements for Kenya and Africa bear me out.What would your first 100 days look like, if Africa turned to you, for your leadership, experience and skills?I will quickly move to implement the long-standing capacity building recommendations to secure an efficient, transparent and more accountable management at the AUC. I will initiate appropriate review processes to reduce bureaucratic overlaps and inject fresh efficiencies into the AUC systems across the board. I will ensure a vibrant, efficient and responsive AUC.The AU is known for over-dependence on donor funding. What is your strategy to deal with funding issues?I will work to implement the mutually beneficial proposals for domestic resource mobilisation and funding from within Africa. This is a critical first step towards ensuring a predictable and adequate resource base for the AU and the Commission&rsquo;s operations and activities. I will also explore sustainable ways of financing Agenda 2063 through concrete mechanisms that optimise use of mobilised resources.What will be your leadership philosophy and style, having been a diplomat for most of your life?The commission, under my stewardship, will provide a dynamic platform capable of driving the continent&rsquo;s political and integration agenda by facilitating communication and dialogue with other AU structures, continental policy organs and strategic partners.I will work to strengthen the institutional and consultative frameworks of the African Union by working closely with the Permanent Representative Committee (PRC); African Union Peace and Security Council (AUPSC); African Commissions; New Partnership for African Development (NEPAD), Pan African Parliament, Economic and Social Council (ECOSOCC), African Courts, Regional Economic Communities (RECs), United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA) and the African Development Bank (AfDB).I will rely on my tested experience in the international arena to provide the requisite leadership and forge stronger and beneficial partnerships with the international community, while repositioning Africa as a strong and influential global player.Intra-African trade is plagued by a scarcity of Infrastructure. How will your leadership tackle this?Africa has a huge infrastructural deficit. According to the World Bank, it requires about Sh10 trillion annually for the next 10 years to transform its infrastructure. The continent has only been able to mobilise Sh4.5 trillion per year. The Sh5.5 trillion deficit has reduced Africa&rsquo;s global competitiveness by about 40 per cent and further reduced the continent&rsquo;s annual growth rate by about three percentage points.With this background, I will support the development of infrastructure and seek to build on the existing initiatives, including the Programme for Infrastructure Development in Africa (PIDA) and the RECs initiatives to reduce the infrastructural deficit.Under my watch, the commission will support the revolution of infrastructure within the continent by creating seamless connections through land, air and sea to maximise Africa&rsquo;s potential.The outgoing UN secretary general said there is no plan B in how the world deals with the environment, &ldquo;because there is no plan B Globe&rdquo;. What is your take?Africa is responsible for less than four per cent of global carbon emissions. Climate experts are unanimous that Africa&rsquo;s limited resource capacity makes it most vulnerable to the negative effects of climate change. Under my stewardship, the commission will partner with national, regional and international actors to drive mitigation and adaptation measures and set the agenda for debate concerning Africa&rsquo;s climate justice at international negotiation forums.How will your leadership help Africa achieve peace and security?I will promote the ideals of democracy and the rule of law. I will lobby and work closely with all African leaders to promote peaceful elections and transitions.I will devote my energies to ensure the Commission is better placed to offer timely, adequate, efficient and supportive humanitarian interventions whenever such needs arise.I will rally Member States to secure social stability through peace, development and security by presenting a united front against all forms of exclusion, extremism and international crimes.Africa has not fully utilised its natural resources for the benefit of its people. Do you have any strategy to stem this tide?Africa is blessed with abundant natural resources that ought to be exploited for the greater benefit of our people. Under my watch, the commission will work closely with member states to promote inclusive growth and balanced development.I will prioritise the mainstreaming and harmonisation of Agenda 2063 and the Sustainable Development Goals in the Commissions programme of work. In particular, I will deliberately focus on empowerment of women, youth and people living with disabilities in all aspects of national, regional and continental focus and priority. I will also strongly advocate for strengthened global partnerships for development to meet the goals and their 169 targets in the stipulated timeframe.Women in Africa are mainly used as tools in peasant farming and tending for the households. Do you have any plans to unleash the potential of African women and youth?The woman of Africa remains disenfranchised on many fronts. To remedy this, I will address gender inequalities and barriers to women&rsquo;s participation in productive activities so as to enhance their contribution to Africa&rsquo;s transformation and socio-economic processes. This will be achieved by closely working with member states to create opportunities for youth and women.I will support the free flow of information and ideas by augmenting intergenerational dialogue and decision-making, through the exchange of ideas, including traditional knowledge, to reinforce creativity and renewal.Do you think your chairmanship of the AUC can bring about unity and cohesion in Africa, with shared values by the African people?Agenda 2063 is anchored on shared values transcending individual to state and regional levels. At individual level, identified values include basic rights to livelihood, identity and opportunity; tolerance, dignity and respect, justice, integrity, equality of persons, and self-determination.At the national and regional levels, desirable values are sovereignty and interdependence of states, self-reliance, national determination, and solidarity of states, environmental stability and security.I will underscore Africa&rsquo;s shared values and common destiny in order to promote a more united and stronger Continent that presents a common front in promoting and negotiating our interests on the global stage.Our people are our greatest strength. Tapping into African talent will be the hallmark of my tenure. I will chart a new path towards Africa&rsquo;s cultural renaissance by enhancing the capacity of the continent to leverage on its values and ideals to unite our people within, and in the diaspora.I will fully tap into the huge pool of African commonalities through policies and programmes dedicated to promote our African brotherhood and sisterhood through; continental sporting activities, cultural symposia and extravaganza as well as information exchange and knowledge sharing. Why do you feel most suited for the position of chairperson of the AUC?I am an African with impeccable pan-African credentials. I bring on board competencies and experience that will make it possible to secure Africa&rsquo;s Agenda 2063. I have shown my dedication and capability during the continent&rsquo;s most difficult times, as enlisted in search for peace and stability.My independent international credibility and professionalism has been tried and tested. I will leverage on my rich experience and contacts across the globe to lobby for positions, partnerships and pacts as well as advocate for a stronger and respected Africa in the international arena.