I don&rsquo;t want to be na&iuml;ve. I want to be very realistic regarding the coming elections. I see trouble ahead. And I want Kenyans to prepare for it. It is sad. But the old adage still stands: power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely. In the Kenyan context I would verify this saying a little differently. Corruption blinds but looting blinds absolutely.I agree with John Githongo and David Ndii in their analysis of corruption in Kenya. We ourselves have spoken in the past of a &ldquo;lutocracy&rdquo; in Kenya ever since the early nineties. As chairman of Parliament&rsquo;s Public Investments Committee in 1994-96, I saw how public land was allocated to individuals for nothing and the latter turned around and &ldquo;sold&rdquo; it to the NSSF for a fortune. This was a process of looting public property by the political who-is-who in the Nyayo regime. Some people then turned around and looted the same pieces of land from the NSSF for nothing. And now they have put up sky scrapers in Upper Hill, and they call themselves &ldquo;successful businessmen.&rdquo; To make their status sound even more respectable, they call themselves &ldquo;entrepreneurs.&rdquo; They now own legal and respectable property with title deeds, recognized and protected by the state. The men and women who rushed to occupy key positions in the UhuRuto government are still in the early process of looting. They are still a little bit far from transforming themselves from looters to businessmen and then to entrepreneurs. Yet time is short. Five years is not enough. Another problem: the frontier of looting in land in Nairobi, and even at the coast, closed during the era of Anglo Leasing. What is called &ldquo;grabiosis&rdquo; reached its zenith at that time, and now prime property in the hands of the businessmen and entrepreneurs costs a fortune: not a very good candidate for primitive accumulation unless you can take it by force. Which is not easy. Unless of course you can take it from a vulnerable primary school&mdash;until whistle blowers spoil your game. The owners of &ldquo;solid pieces of land&rdquo; are the respectable gentlemen and ladies who form the bedrock of the bureaucratic state, standing there like a she elephant jealously guarding &ldquo;hard earned property&rdquo;. The sanctity of private property is held as a holy creed by the state when it comes to this class of people, not the peasants, workers and the &ldquo;hustling&rdquo; middle classes.So when Ruto described himself as a &ldquo;hustler&rdquo; during the Coalition Government period he was not wrong. He had not started the process of primitive accumulation in earnest. By &ldquo;in earnest&rdquo; I mean counting his fortunes in the billions of Kenya shillings not millions; millions are for debutants. And he was not speaking nostalgically about the past either: it was in anger and bitterness of lost opportunities, or opportunities not fully exploited. So, once in government, this process must continue through tender-preneurship, the kind that is typical of the NYS saga where principals and agents were falling over each other to get their cut from real or contrived contracts, leaving the carcass of the NYS to the scavengers from the state investigative agencies. Kaburu was a little foolish: you don&rsquo;t carry the loot in bags; you stash it away in foreign accounts through some doctors working in London or lawyers in the Cayman Islands. Huge infrastructure projects like the SGR and the water tunnels have been good candidates for tender-preneurs in the Jubilee administration. Exactly how this is done has been the subject matter of Ndii&rsquo;s many articles in the columns of the Nation on Saturday. That the Jubilee honchos have never cared to refute these analyses confirms that the analyses have hit where it hurts most. The point is: we need to modernize our infrastructure without the heavy debt burden that the looters put on us. And if you think we shall chase them away by voting them out of office, think again. Defeated at the ballot they will be going by the mood in the country. But going away peacefully they may not. According to them, there have been too many interruptions and hick ups these last four years in their looting process and they will need another five-year period of consolidation. Whether wananchi will take their resistance to leave office benignly is another matter; hence my fear for what will happen on August 9, 2017.The late George Saitoti was right. There does indeed come a time when the wishes of an individual must be relegated to secondary position to that of the nation. The Kalenjin nation has started to systematically make this point to William Somei arap Ruto. The message is simple. &ldquo;We stood by you during the last election because we understood that being in government was an important shield against the menace at Hague. But that is now gone. We now see that you have entered into a personal economic venture of enrichment that is putting our interest at stake and that of Kenya in jeopardy. There comes a time&hellip;, and that time is now. We have chosen to fight against corruption with a team that has consistently fought the vice, whatever is your personal opinion about these people.&rdquo; I don&rsquo;t know about you, but that is the message I seem to get from Nandi and South Rift. Don&rsquo;t worry about Gideon Moi out there in Baringo; he seems to be ambivalent regarding what to do, where to be, what to say and when to say it. In my language we say a guinea fowl never leaves its feathers behind. The problem with the kind of political change that we are likely to witness before the coming election is that it is going to be like a tsunami sweeping both sides of the political valley. To be safe it will be better for all leaders who want to survive on either side of the political valley to climb to higher ground so that wananchi know exactly who can lead them to safely. The ambivalence shown by Gideon won&rsquo;t help him. Those he purports to lead may easily look elsewhere for guidance to safety when the Tsunami becomes too strong, which it inevitably will. But that just demonstrates yet another old dictum: that primitive accumulation (accumulation by extra economic means) accompanies all stages of capitalist development. First as theft of property of the realm of the kind that made monarchs in England send culprits to the gallows, then as savage robbery of human labor and resources typical of lutocrats, and then as grand corruption with the finesse of law, tenders and the complications of money markets such as Eurobonds. This is where so-called entrepreneurs of the Kenyatta and Moi eras cannot discipline the likes of Kaburus, Wagurus and their masters: the dividing line of economic interests is too thin. And the ambivalence of Gideon demonstrates thus very well. But to win competitive democratic elections one needs to gather a majority to cast the votes, and this may require putting up with strange bed fellows and getting into unimaginable political marriages. That is the nature of politics: alliances, coalitions, MOUs and the works. But then think ahead: beyond the victory day how will you accomplish the changes the expectant voters can believe in if you campaign on the platform of change, reform and the fight against corruption? Statecraft, the strength of social imagination, placing the right people in the right places and being present to lead: here lies the secret. Mwai Kibaki got it largely right, but he contravened an electoral covenant and then fell sick. The NARC government could have done much better. The Grand Coalition got it largely right and achieved tasks few could ever imagine. Ndii argues that this was because it was a government of &ldquo;secure leadership&rdquo; and, I dare add, effective internal checks and balances. The Jubilee regime has managed to fumble along; its main agenda was not change but the fight against Hague. With an insecure leadership and doubtful internal checks and balances, with stalwarts reading largely from a rather confused script full of sound and fury but signifying nothing, grand scale corruption and looting seem to have blossomed. Yet it expects to be reelected. Will it? The writer is the senator from Kisumu county