Mavoko MP Patrick Makau had defended Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka following claims that he grabbed 4000 acres of land in the area.Makau said he did not know of any property that belonged to Kalonzo and any of his associates.He likened propagators of the claims to "Satan", and said they were out to tarnish the Wiper leader's reputation and his chances of becoming president in 2017. The other day I discovered that Satan and his long tail can go anywhere. I heard someone say Kalonzo has stolen 4,000 acres of land in Mavoko," he said."I can assure you, as the area MP, that there is no such land. Kalonzo is as clean as a wool."He did not name the person he was referring to, in his address in Kajiado West constituency, Kajiado, during the Entumo Oolmakesen clan prayer day on Saturday.[AUDIO] Mutua implicates Kalonzo in Mavoko land grabbingRead: Kalonzo used VP position to get 200-acre land - MutuaMakau said the award Kalonzo won in New York was proof that he had high moral standards and was a dignified leader.He said Kalonzo had the qualities required to unite Kenya and promote peace.The Wiper boss, who also attended the prayers, did not address the claims but noted the mega corruption witnessed under Jubilee's rule.Kalonzo warned against the glorification of suspects saying the trend will lead to Kenya's collapse. It seems those implicated in the looting of public funds are the ones highly respected. This can never make a country prosper," he said.He noted that a country needs a leader who can "exorcise the ghost of corruption" and return Kenya to the path of progress. Everybody seems to be crying because of corruption. Even President Uhuru Kenyatta is crying. If the president can cry, what will happen to the ordinary Kenyan? he asked. This is the reason why we must look for solutions to corruption. That is why I am asking for your prayers for the journey ahead."[VIDEO] Frustrated Uhuru scolds state officials on rampant corruptionRead: 'Cry baby' Uhuru faces KOT wrath after corruption frustrationOn matters administration, Kalonzo debunked Jubilee "propaganda" that when Cord leaders takes power, they will get rid of chiefs and their assistants.He assured the administrators that that their posts will remain so that the public can be assisted and security enhanced, for effectiveness in the smallest administrative units. Whoever comes to you with this lie...Tell him he is a liar. Our chiefs will remain because they preserve respect and security in the grassroots," said the leader.Also read: I don t have concrete proof Kalonzo grabbed land, graft panel should probe - Mutua