That Deputy President William Ruto is eloquent is not in doubt. But it&rsquo;s interesting that the DP said a few things during an interview with Citizen TV that clearly were not true. For example, the DP, in his bid to extol Jubilee achievements since 2013, said the government had built and equipped 93 referral hospitals across the country. Those in the medical world have been making fun of the DP and wondering where, exactly, these referral facilities are!****SENIOR Jubilee officials gave their leadership in Parliament a thorough bollocking after the ruling party was frustrated in Parliament on Tuesday. Cord employed every trick in the book, and then some, as they successfully thwarted attempts by Jubilee to introduce amendments to the election laws. We are told that some of those who attended the meeting were extremely unhappy that National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi had given the opposition a lot of leeway - and vowed revenge.**** WE are told that some Jubilee MPs are planning to introduce a motion in Parliament to discuss a High Court judge. They are unhappy with Justice George Odunga, whom they accuse of fighting the government. They plan to introduce the motion on January 24 next year, when the House resumes. Justice Odunga declined to stop Parliament from discussing amendments to the election law, saying there were no compelling reasons to issue an injunction or nullify the gazette notice. Odunga acknowledged that the case was important, but said the opposition did not give reasons sufficient for the issuance of a temporary order against the special sitting.****GMO crusaders in this country have gone a notch higher in trying to lift the ban on genetically modified foods. Our snitch now tells us that some governors were given a Christmas present of Sh5 million each to try and lobby State House to lift the ban. Those opposed to the scheme are questioning the rationale of lobbying for GMO production, yet it will only be consumed locally as opposed to the export market.****THERE is word doing the rounds a daughter of a prominent Jubilee leader was refused a student visa to the United Kingdom. It is unclear when this happened, but it would be very interesting if it&rsquo;s true. The young girl apparently finished school in 2012, so she might be at the Bachelor&rsquo;s or Master&rsquo;s stage now.