Woman representative Shakila Abdalla &mdash; an outspoken critic of the Lamu coal-fired plant &mdash; yesterday denied she has been bribed by a cartel to block the project and make way for another.There is widespread talk she has received a handsome inducement to scuttle the controversial Sh200 million plant so a Mombasa-based cartel can set up a different project. &ldquo;I want make it clear I have not been paid a dime by anyone. I am doing this of my own volition, based on the fact I&rsquo;m an elected leader who ought to defend the interests of my people,&rdquo; Abdalla said.The legislator said she is only acting in the best interests of Lamu people. Abdalla has often said the project will do more harm than good, endangering health and the environment.She said as a leader she is obligated to ensure such a project is not established in the county.Vocal criticThe plant is sponsored by Amu Power Company, a consortium of two co-sponsors &mdash; Gulf Energy and Centum Investment. It is to be put up at Kwasasi village, Hindi.Speaking yesterday at the Sunsail Hotel in Lamu town, Abdalla said the rumour is damaging. She said it is peddled by cartels out to frustrate her fight for the rights of the people of Lamu.Abdalla said some people are uncomfortable with her development record and her vocal criticism. They are bent on using anything to taint her reputation, she said.&ldquo;It&rsquo;s funny how people label you names for doing the right thing. However, it&rsquo;s a war I shall fight to the bitter end. There will be no coal plant in Lamu because it&rsquo;s bad for health and the environment.&rdquo; Hazards vs benefitsThe legislator accused the Lamu government, the National Environment and Management Authority and the Energy Regulatory Commission of trying to impose the project on residents. &ldquo;Based on past and present research and studies in countries where similar coal projects have been established, the risks, the disadvantages and the hazards all outweigh the benefits,&rdquo; she said.&ldquo;I&rsquo;m also appealing to President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto to personally come out and state their position on the matter.&rdquo;Abdalla urged Governor Issa Timamy to break his silence and say whether or not he will fight for the interests of the people.&ldquo;The governor&rsquo;s silence on this is extremely loud. We want to understand where he stands or whether the people of Lamu are on their own in this struggle. We want Nema, the ERC and the investors to know we won&rsquo;t let them force this on us,&rdquo; she said.