IT specialist, Gichugu MP aspirantIgraduated from The University of Nairobi in 1984 with a BSc in mathematics and computer science. I have worked in various capacities in the IT department in leading companies like KTDA, Unilever Tea and Unga Limited.I am also a highly experienced IT professional, able to match available technology to business needs. I'm a skilled communicator with a proven ability to work with and through others to produce positive results. I left formal employment in 1997 to start my business in IT and construction.I have a passion for leadership as you get to teach people great morals. I started politics in 2012-13, vying for MP in Gichugu constituency. I'll still be vying for the same position in the 2017 general election.0530HRSI usually wake up, do a small prayer, take a shower, have breakfast and get ready for the day&rsquo;s work.0730HRSI leave for the office, which takes me approximately 45 minutes. During this time, I go through the day&rsquo;s newspaper. I mostly prefer the Star, as it gives me insights in the political arena. I also tend to go through emails received at night so that I can make plans on who to get back to urgently once I get to the office.0900HRS I attend to office needs. Here, I ensure that everything is running smoothly and that all departments have all they require to fulfill their mandates and targets.1300HRSOccasionally, I go for lunch in the nearby restaurants, where I get a chance to interact with people. I am a vegetarian, so I stick to a vegetable- only meal. I believe vegetables have most of the nutrients a human being requires.1400HRSI spend my afternoons visiting sites and clients. I love being hands-on with my work to ensure everthing is on point.1600HRSI go back to the office at around this time. I then review the day&rsquo;s work and plan for the next day. 1730HRSI leave office for social meetings. For instance, wedding committees and sacco meetings.Saturday:I spend most Saturdays upcountry meeting my supporters and attending tevents and occasions I'm invited to. Through this, I get involved in community programmes and also familiarise myself with the people. Sunday: I wake up at 5am. My day of Sabbath is Sunday. I'm a member of St Joseph ACK Thoome Church, but in most cases, I attend different churches in Gichugu as I am usually upcountry on weekends. I retire back to my home and prepare for my journey back to Nairobi, ready for in coming week.