A unique and dangerous trend, likely to have negative impact on public life in the future, is forming and gaining ground in this country.The new-found trend of bastardising genuine audit queries in institutions of governance must be exposed for what it is &mdash; a big lie! In traditional logic terms a fallacy, this is a grave error in reasoning! The very philosophy of an audit process is to enhance accountability by getting a third party &mdash; the auditor &mdash; to obtain justifications for spending, and decisions made in governance.More often than not, and depending on the nature of organisations, auditors may not get full explanations for their queries. Working on extremely tight deadlines and dealing with bureaucrats, they often hit a dead end on some inquiries. Be that as it may, queries are just that. They can never be answers. A situation where questions become answers would itself be absurd and fallacious.Yet, that is the trend gaining legitimacy in Kenya, where audit queries are being transformed into answers without an effort from the auditing fraternity to set the record straight. The trend involves publicising and reporting audit queries in a definitive manner, which leaves little room for any other explanation other than loss and misappropriation of resources by the parties concerned.Adding insult to injury, the media is using very categorical terms to describe the audit queries: Theft, plunder, looting!And so believable are our media institutions that nothing that follows these reports can overturn the perception they create. By the time institutions are explaining themselves, the public has been poisoned. If you were to follow these reports to their logical conclusions, the story changes a thousand times. The amounts keep decreasing with every passing day, the gravity of the losses decreases and the prominence of the stories quietly moves from headlines to fillers or gossip columns.The danger with this trend is three-fold. One, it will lead to loss of faith in auditing. Kenyans may soon start dismissing audit reports because they never tell them the genuine losses and exactly who was responsible. The generalised nature of the reports being released is leaving more questions than answers and generating more heat than light. They obfuscate and in their wake, the public is left suspended in-between an overzealous auditor and defensive institution.Two, institutions will stop taking auditing seriously because they can anticipate their endgame to be a contrived public scandal! This is more likely to happen in political processes where politicians, with their followers, begin to discredit audits and auditors. Those who underestimate the power of politics and politicians in forming and sustaining people&rsquo;s perceptions only need to review recent political events.They will find that politics play a major role in what people think or believe about certain processes or institutions.Third, the trend is likely to result in less accountability as genuine audit queries are lost in the mix of a poisoned public discourse with various interests at play, all adding to the confusion. This will go on to defeat the very logic behind audits.Auditors need to take measures to ensure what they present in their reports does not leave huge room for fervid imaginations. They should not issue vague reports that are open to different interpretations depending on who is reading them.Institutions should be given adequate time to respond to queries raised. If they do not, it should be clear in the audit reports that the answers to the queries were not offered. That, however, does not in and of itself prove malfeasance. Media need to be trained to report on audit processes. It cannot be that every audit is a public scandal in the eyes of Kenyan media. This speaks to capacity issues in the Fourth Estate that ought to be enhanced. Auditors themselves must take the lead in stopping the culture of bastardising audit queries. The onus is on them to set things in perspective rather than keep quiet as their questions are transformed into answers.Audit institutions need to be capacitated with enough resources and manpower to enable them to carry out their audits properly. Auditing should not be rushed merely to beat deadlines or achieve targets without regard to their quality. Finally, audit queries must be pushed to their logical conclusion by getting justifications and answers from the relevant institutions. It cannot be that audit queries disappear in the midst of a poisoned public debate, in denials and counter-denials.Kenyans can and should get more from audit reports. The current scenario where audits are generating more heat than light is neither sustainable nor helpful to the greater good of the greatest majority of Kenyans.