Both the national and county governments should have the courage to say no to big a business that is corrupting its commitment to renewable energy. In the first two weeks of November, the international community gathered for the 22nd Conference of Parties (COP22) in Marrakech, Morocco, where they detailed how they will put the Paris Agreement into action. On November 18, 47 of the most vulnerable countries to climate change adopted the Marrakech Declaration within the framework of the Climate Vulnerable Forum. Termed the Marrakech Vision, the CVF members will &ldquo;strive to meet 100 per cent domestic renewable energy production as rapidly as possible, while working to end energy poverty and protect water and food security&rdquo;. Kenya is among the CVF member states who have worked to highlight climate-related concerns and challenges since 2009. At COP22, the CVF promised to fully green their economies by between 2030-50. Kenya has further chosen to be a leader in addressing climate change. This year, the country became the first in Africa to enact a national climate change law, Climate Act 2016. Kenya also has a National Climate Action Plan, which together with the law, emphasises the need for a climate resilient and low carbon development pathway. In 2015, Kenya submitted its ambitious target to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, setting out a commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30 per cent by 2030. To achieve this target, Kenya highlighted that priority mitigation activities will include expansions in the national production of geothermal, solar, wind and other renewable and clean energy options. Kenya&rsquo;s climate promises stand as inconsistent in the face of the proposed 1050 MW coal plant in Lamu, which the same government argues is necessary to meet soaring electricity demand in an affordable way. While the project fits into the government&rsquo;s energy plan, the plant is incoherent with Kenya&rsquo;s low carbon development commitments. Lamu coal illustrates incongruence between international commitment, national green laws policies and plans without subsequent implementation. Unfortunately, investors and the government are biased towards economic interests tied to the coal project because they may seem instant and tangible, completely ignoring the devastating social and environmental impacts.However, the environmental impact of the coal plant will be irreversible. Water pollution due to coal sludge and waste deposited in the ocean, as well as the discharge of waste-water at significantly higher temperatures, will radically affect marine life and the livelihoods of fishermen. Dredging activities during the construction phase are projected to cause significant and serious damage to the neighbouring mangroves, sea grasses and coral reefs habitats. The air quality will also significantly change as a result of the coal combustion, which releases mercury, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide and dozens of other substances known to be hazardous to human health. As Kenya flirts with coal, calls for a global moratorium or temporary prohibition on new coal mines have been proposed. Two of the world&rsquo;s largest coal-producing countries, the US and China have imposed moratoria on the approval of new coal mining leases. Demolishing and decommissioning of coal-fired power plants is also ongoing in a number of countries such as Canada and Russia. It is therefore prudent for Kenya to take early action to decarbonise its development.This will reduce the risk of lock-in and higher costs of future emission reduction action. It also presents Kenya with the opportunity to set the pace as Africa&rsquo;s hub for low carbon technology. Even as we focus on the Energy Regulatory Commission public hearings on the Lamu Coal Plant and the Environmental Tribunal&rsquo;s hearing of the appeal against NEMA&rsquo;s decision to grant the coal plant an EIA license, we wish to first and foremost remind Kenya of its local and global commitments and be true to both Kenya&rsquo;s Climate Act 2016 and the country&rsquo;s National Climate Action Plan. We urge both the county and national governments to be true to the dedication of achieving the goal of 100 per cent renewable energy and not succumb to politics of power and wealth.The writer is the executive director, Greenpeace Africa