The second edition of the High Level Meeting for Effective Development Cooperation took place in Nairobi last week with the aim of building political momentum for change, and shift gears to harness the potential of development partnership. The progress made so far on effective cooperation towards some principles of effectiveness such as transparency of aid and mutual accountability are welcome. However, this is insufficient to compensate for the trend towards focus on donors&rsquo; own national interests, and the undermining of democratic ownership.We see new players, new ideas and new sources of finance in development architecture. Developing countries are increasingly using taxes and remittances to finance their own development. In Africa alone in absolute numbers, tax revenues dwarf official development assistance, or ODA, by more than 10 times.One such idea is Tax Inspectors Without Borders &mdash; an initiative inspired by Kenya &mdash; through which we find that for every dollar spent on cracking down on tax avoidance, we could help generate a return of over $1,000 for the Treasury. On the global stage, the OECD countries have committed to tackling base erosion, profit shifting, and tax avoidance by multinationals, which undermine efforts to invest in development.Despite progress made, many global promises have not been translated into action. In 2015, the Africa Union Report on Illicit Financial Flows by a panel chaired by Thabo Mbeki revealed that, while Africa receives nearly $30 billion (Sh3 trillion) in aid, the continent loses $192 billion (Sh19.6 trillion) in policies by these very donors that ensure their companies pay little or no tax in Africa.This makes a mockery of the much-talked-about aid to Africa. Kenya, for instance, loses an average of Sh100 billion annually from just one such tax policy. Similarly, developing governments&rsquo; demand for the creation of an independent tax body under the UN was shot down by the donors during the Finance for Development Meeting in Addis Ababa last year. Instead, there was insistence that what poor countries needed was more aid.At the same time, the bulk of what donors give to Africa &mdash; $30 billion annually &mdash; goes back to the very countries that give it. The world was &lsquo;surprised&rsquo; when it was revealed during the World Humanitarian Summit that 98 per cent of donor funding remains with International NGOs, and organisations in the frontline have to battle it out to access the remaining two per cent.According to the Donor Group, Kenya receives $3.2 billion (Sh320 billion) in total aid every year. That translates into Sh7,200 per person. For a country where 20 million are classified by donors as living on Sh36,000 per year, foreign assistance is 20 per cent of the money that poor people receive. Should 20 per cent of the livelihood of our citizens depend on donors? What does it mean for the government&rsquo;s accountability? What is our ability to trust and support the government? It is important that citizens gather and honestly discuss these questions.After two years, HLM3 will gather delegates again to review progress made in the Nairobi Declaration, the outcome of last week&rsquo;s meeting. Do not expect any discussions on trade and tax, and tax havens and corporate policies that kill local industries. Not even serious discussions on country ownership of development priorities and a focus on results. We can imagine how the script will look like &mdash; poor countries will complain that they need more money but with greater control on how it should be used. Special interest groups will complain of how they are not getting enough support to hold poor governments accountable, that aid is being wasted by corrupt governments. Development partners will speak highly of their commitment in Africa and elsewhere, say something about how they are doing their best to increase development support to the region, ending with a promise to look into their policies that hinder effective aid. A declaration will be read to thunderous applause at the closing ceremony. If there is time, there will be a cocktail party for the honoured guests.