I am an entrepreneur by heart and name because my middle name means seller in my mother tongue. Hairstyling wasn t my initial calling. I had wanted to be a DJ once. Back then there were no female DJ s. I have also sold newspapers, compact discs, clothes. Hair by Dee KE was born when one day on YouTube I discovered crochet braiding. It s basically a protective style whereby one uses a crotchet or latch hookto knot braids on cornrows. After making my hair using that style, friends started asking me what I had done and that s when I thought of posting my picture on Facebook and soon enough I had clients. I got interested in locs and decided to join a salon to know how to start them and style .Soon after I was researching on other ways of doing locs. What time do you get up?Depending on my appointments, it could be anytime between 3am and 7am. On my off days I make sure to rest as much as possible so I wake up at 10am.The first thing you do in the morning?Pray and then check my social media pages.What s for breakfast? I am a tea and bread person but sometimes I take cereal. I love tea.How is a typical day at work like?I usually have two to three scheduled appointments in a day, Monday through to Sunday though I prefer resting on Mondays unless I get a free day within the week. Being a mobile hairstylist I cannot have more than three clients a day considering the distance between the appointments. What do you have for lunch? I mostly skip lunch as am either enroute or already at work unless I have some snacks like coated groundnuts in my bag or the client is kind enough to offer me something to eat. What time do you get home?At around 10pm or 11pm depending on my appointments. What do you have for dinner?I love traditional foods such as ugali, mukimo, chapati, beef and sukuma wiki. My favourite dish to cook is pilau which I can cook every weekend. However when am too tired, I just buy take out.How do you unwind and what time do you go to bed? Am mostly online. I have to keep tabs on my social media pages and schedule appointments. I sleep around midnight or even later than that sometimes.Weekend schedule? On Saturdays, I attend to clients. It gets quite busy. On Sundays,I go to church in the morning then head to work.If no clients call, I research online on new hair techniques online and stock up on latest braids. Otherwise I relax by watching either a series or movies or just visit friends.