The Kenya Red Cross is appealing for food and water donations to support the families affected by the Naivasha tanker explosion that left 40 people dead on Saturday night.Read: At least 40 dead in grisly road accident on Nairobi-Nakuru highwayKRCS head of corporate affairs Anthony Mwangi says they need water, milk, bread, biscuits, glucose and soda.He said they are also in need of non-food items such as disposable cups, lunch boxes, serviettes, trash bags, sanitizers, plates and folks.Mwangi said donations can be delivered at the Chiromo Mortuary where families and friends awaiting the identification of bodies of their loved ones are camping.He said monetary donations can also be channeled through Paybill Number 10,000, Account, name: Naivasha.Mwangi said KRCS has deployed staff and 25 volunteer counselors to the Chiromo Mortuary grounds to offer First Aid, psycho-social counselling and assist in tracing missing persons."The bereaved will go through two counselling sessions, pre-viewing and post-viewing counseling, offered by counselors from KRCS and the Amani Counseling Centre," stated Mwangi. He said 36 cases of missing persons had so far been recorded at the tracing and information desk while 57 people had received psycho-social support.{PHOTOS}Tanker explosion kills 40 along Nairobi-Nakuru HighwayMwangi said the National Disaster Management Unit, the National Disaster Operation Centre, the Kenya Police, St. John&rsquo;s Ambulance, Amani Counseling Centre are some of the other organizations that are offering support to the families at the Chiromo mortuary. Friends and relatives have traveled from various parts of the country to identify their loved ones who were caught up in the tragedy when a lorry carrying flammable material exploded after hitting oncoming vehicles at Karai near Naivasha.A team of pathologists led by chief government pathologist Johansen Oduor is expected to start the identification exercise on Tuesday before releasing the results within two weeks. Also read: Motorists blame Naivasha tragedy on irregularly erected bumpsSome families have however decried the long wait saying it will double their grief.John Mbegu, whose UK based brother lost three children in the tragedy was among those who voiced their concerns about the waiting period. "They were not burnt. I am the one who pulled them out of the car and I know them. What identification do they need? Mbegu asked.Lucy Ngugi, whose cousin Joseph Ngugi Mureithi died in the inferno, said the government should deploy more pathologists to the morgue to hasten the identification process and relief the bereaved families of more pain."Only God can give us peace and consolation and we want to close and get over this issue. The government should not make us suffer more by keeping us in suspense," she said.