SULEIMAN Shahbal (pictured), the man who hopes to unseat Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, is not taking chances in his latest bid. We are told that the businessman has been able to find his way to the Presidency and has now been fully embraced by Jubilee leaders, led by President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. Shahbal&rsquo;s rising star is causing concern in Joho&rsquo;s camp, especially because rumours have been flying around two other challengers, Anania Mwaboza and Cyprian Awiti, who will in the end be asked to endorse Shahbal. On the other hand, Joho&rsquo;s team is vowing to put up a fight for the seat. From the look of things, Mombasa will be an interesting county to watch.***** A Cabinet Secretary has become a daily joke in his own office after creating space for a side-chick in his office without any formal contract. The girl, young enough to be his own daughter, now orders around and harasses staff. The staff have chosen to keep mum, for fear of victimisation. However, what the CS, who was only appointed to the ministry last year, doesn&rsquo;t know is that he shares the side-dish with his randy PA and also his own brother. Even worse is that the girlfriend goes on official trips with the CS at taxpayer expense. Corridors has it that the respect the staff had for the CS vanished in a flash in the thin atmosphere. However, their only hope in the face of the man&rsquo;s disgusting behaviour is that they will have a new boss after the 2017 elections. ***** THE controversial purchase of an audit vault by the Kenya National Audit Office could take another turn after details emerged that a top official who exited a few years ago could be behind the scam. The official in question is also a point of focus in alleged numerous scams in his former office. He is said to have exported the misconduct to a thriving financial and property mortgage provider institution, as he remains untouchable. Fears are rife that the officer, now serving in senior level management, could dent the institution&rsquo;s image in the coming days.*****IT appears that a senator from a county in Rift Valley is having it as planned in his bid to defend his seat. The man is said to have convinced one of the area MPs in the county to vie for governor, hoping to benefit from the arrangement and, in effect, convince the MP&rsquo;s sub-clan to support his bid to return to the Senate. However, Corridors is reliably informed the locals are already aware of the game and have vowed to send the senator packing, come next year.