A splinter group within the Jubilee Party house in Mombasa has warned of possible pull out from the party if not declared the winner interim officials&rsquo; elections.Sharp differences emerged after the group that was defeated in the chaotic elections rejected the results and declared themselves winners of the Monday last week&rsquo;s elections.The group said if their list will not be honored by the party&rsquo;s leadership, they will stop campaigning for the party.Chaos and fists fights marred the elections of the officials.Read: Shame of JP interim officials' selection and election chaosMatano Chengo was elected as the interim chairperson along other officials last week. But a faction led by the &ldquo;Interim Chair&rdquo; Ali Mwatsahu said they have already chosen their county officials and vowed not to work with the other group. Jawambe Mirobi, the &ldquo;interim treasurer&rdquo; said other 18 officials voted last week have been replaced by party loyalist from their rival camp. President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s popularity at the Coast is undermined by wrangles rocking the JP and what many call the shambolic elections of interim officials. In Mombasa, the ruling party has been divided into two, former members of TNA and URP. Mirobi has accused former TNA national secretary general Onyango Oloo of favoring their opponents. She said they were URP members before the merger and have been sidelined. Further, the two splinter groups under the stewardship of banker Suleiman Shahbal and former MP Annaniah Mwaboza fronted their own for the chairman position. Mwaboza fronted Mwatsahu as his candidate, whereas Shahbal&rsquo;s candidate was Chengo.Read: Kwale Jubilee leaders negotiate interim officials to avoid chaosMirobi bashed head of the JP secretariat Raphael Tuju for calling them ODM hooligans sent to disrupt Monday&rsquo;s elections. The elections were marred with violence at the Kenya School of Government in Kizingo. Anti-riot police contained the fracas. Mirobi said Tuju divided the two groups further instead of uniting them when he called them hooligans. &ldquo;Tuju and Oloo don&rsquo;t want Jubilee to win in Mombasa,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We are telling the presidency that their effort of wooing Mombasa to their side is being undermined by these two men.&rdquo; Mirobi and other members addressed press at Jawambe Hotel today. Another member Zeina Salim said grass root votes have been divided. Salim alleged prior to the chaotic election, Shahbal&rsquo;s camp was held up in nightlong meeting formulating the list of those to fill various positions. She said some of them were not aware were the polling station was and blamed Oloo for miscommunication.Also read: Chaos mars Jubilee election in Laikipia