Renowned constitutional lawyer Philip Murgor recently declared he will run for President in 2017. The 55-year-old lawyer also served as the Director of Public Prosecutions for two years under the Mwai Kibaki regime before he was fired in May 2005. What is your vision for the country and do you think you will win, bearing in mind that you are new in politics?I stand for a society that has no corruption or impunity, and equality for all regardless of tribe, gender, race, religion or disability. It is my dream that Kenyans feel proud of their own country under my leadership. Kenyans have finally woken up to the reality that tribalism will destroy the country. They must now find a leader that will unite Kenya and I am that leader.Critics say you should have started as an MP or governor before going for the big seat, and that politics in Kenya is not ideology-based. What do you say?I am not interested in politics for its own sake. I have joined politics to provide solutions in the only office that counts: the presidency. In terms of ideology, Kenya&rsquo;s politics has not been up to date. Going forward, it will be ideological not tribal. Watch UDM.How will you handle the pressure that comes with the top office and do you intend to make Kenya great again?I am an accomplished constitutional lawyer. I don't take alcohol or smoke. I am used to working hard under pressure and delivering on deadlines. Most important, I am courageous, honest and decisive. The Jubilee leadership thinks that the law is there to be abused, as they are known to do. This is what has denied Kenya her greatness. The law should be a binding force to all of us, regardless of social ranking. Kenyans have always been great, ambitious and innovative. The only danger right now is corruption, impunity and tribalism. Get rid of them and automatically the country and its great people will rise to their rightful place in the community of nations.Say something about brand Kenya.Brand Kenya is not about the good things. It is also about corruption and other social ills. Right now, brand Kenya is about the most corrupt country in the world with Jubilee, led by President Uhuru Kenyatta, being the most corrupt administration since independence. Right now, we are reeling under Sh3.7 trillion foreign debt, with more than Sh2.5 trillion amassed in the four years jubilee has been in power. If corruption continues, we won&rsquo;t be able to repay this debt. There is too much over-borrowing, mismanagement and stealing.How can we then win the war against corruption?Corruption can only be fought from the top. It is only the President who can fight it. If he can&rsquo;t as he has implied before, by saying &ldquo;Munataka nifanyeaje&rdquo;, then he has no business being at the top. He has admitted that he can&rsquo;t do the job he was given to do and therefore, he should not waste our time. He should go home because he has failed. He is not a bad guy at the social level &mdash; hugging those he cares to &mdash; but as a leader, he is a total failure. He is judged by the friends he keeps. Former South African President Nelson Mandela served for only one term and went home. He was immortalised for doing great things for his country. How different are you from your rivals?I am the solution to the problems facing Kenyans. I was driven to the conclusion that the time has come for alternative leadership. My independence makes me different from the other individuals interested in the presidency. The problems affecting this country can only be solved by a good head of state. Therefore, the Kenyan society needs leadership that connotes a good example. For instance, right now, the President has left Kenyans on their own. We have slid to a state of hopelessness, where might is always right and the poor have no voice. We need to end this and if there will be no change in a democratic way, there will certainly be disruptions.How do you rate the short time you served in government under the Narc administration?A society degenerates with bad leadership. When retired President Mwai Kibaki came to power after the 2002 elections with an anti-corruption initiative, Kenyans said; &ldquo;corruption iishe kabisa.&rdquo; I joined him as the Director of Public Prosecutions, a job I never asked for. However, midstream, the Kibaki administration got lost. John Githongo, the then PS for Governance and Ethics, went into exile after unearthing corruption in the Kibaki government and I was fired for the position I took on a highly sensitive case. That was the end of the anti-corruption crusade that made Kenyans vote for Kibaki.Tell us about your tenure as the DPP.During my time as DPP, I aggressively tried to end corruption. The word impunity did not exist in Kenya. When I was fired after just two years in office, in May 2005 because of the high-level Sh6.4 billion cocaine case I was handling, my friends told me, &ldquo;You came before your time. Kenyans were still making money.&rdquo; It is also instructive to note that the corruption noose was quickly tightening around the necks of some powerful individuals in the Kibaki administration.The President recently complained of attempts to rig the 2017 elections through foreign funding. What do you make of it?His remarks are unfortunate. They are symptomatic of a desperate regime on the ropes. Civic education, whether by foreign or local bodies, should never bother you, because it is part of our processes. This paranoia is coming at the wrong time. It clearly shows a regime that is sliding into dictatorship. Civic education is part of the development that Kenyans need. If western countries are being condemned for helping Kenyans, what about the extraordinary assistance the Jubilee government is getting from China?It has been said that your entry into the presidential race will disrupt the 2017 voter equation, especially in Rift Valley, where Deputy President William Ruto and yourself come from. Is it true?Yes, it is. My entry is totally disruptive to the status quo. It is a fallacy that only some individuals should participate in the affairs of the government at the highest level and become billionaires the next day. My entry is disruptive to criminal elements: the cartels, the tribal chiefs who always believe that Kenya can be ruled through the tribal number dynamic. Ruto has no votes in Rift Valley. The votes belong to the people. It&rsquo;s high time he woke up and smelled the coffee. Ruto should also realise that I am not playing in his league. I am playing in the league of Uhuru Kenyatta. I am running against Uhuru and not Ruto. Therefore, we have to go back to the concept of being Kenyans. My ideals resonate well with all Kenyans, regardless of the political divide and the people of Rift Valley and other Kenyans are receptive to my ideas.What do you make of the other presidential hopefuls,in terms of support across the country?I can tell you that Cord leader Raila Odinga is the only individual who can reach outside his community, though with some limitations. He has been busy focusing on other regions other than his Luo- Nyanza home and he is doing well. I must credit him for that because you can&rsquo;t take it away from him. This is not the case with some descendants who think they are entitled to whatever they seek, regardless of what Kenyans want or feel.The political landscape of Kenya is clear that without a coalition, it will be difficult to win the presidency. Are you thinking along similar lines?I have the trust of Kenyans to return this country to its glory. One thing I can assure you is that I will be on the ballot in 2017. But you also need to realize that I will not work with Jubilee. They have run out of ideas, telling people the same things every other day without realising that they are actually boring the people who are already tired.The IEBC Election Campaign Finance Act limits the campaign expenditure at Sh5 billion. Tell us about your kitty.I believe in the sovereign will of the Kenyan people to support my bid. I may not have money as they do but sheer commitment devoid of corruption should be the guiding principle. If a million Kenyans donate Sh100 each to my kitty, how much is that? This is the spirit that guides me, that just like Obama did not have massive resources but still managed to win the US presidency, you do not need to steal from the poor to rule them. The person who can have a billion shillings to campaign for elections can only be a thief. Therefore the limits put by the IEBC are avenues for individuals to steal public funds.Cord has faulted some decisions taken by IEBC: the procurement of ballot paper printing, the hiring of the audit firm to audit the voter register and the regulations on election campaign finance. Do you think they have a point?I support everything that Cord says on the IEBC. The commission has credibility deficits because the people we are calling commissioners should not be in office. The CEO is also taking decisions without consulting stakeholders. To ensure that the 2017 elections are credible, make sure that all the players are satisfied. Make people understand that there is nothing to fear about. But as of now, I am skeptical about free and fair elections and it&rsquo;s about the perception people have. The methodology for selecting the audit firm is not clear. The parties involved should have been the ones to craft the terms of references of the audit firm. But they were not consulted.