In what can be described as a prophetic note of the current health situation in Kenya, in his 1988 novel &lsquo;Doctors&rsquo;, Erich Segal wrote, &ldquo;Doctors are often accused of callousness, venality and self-infatuation. But they remind us that they have sacrificed the springtime of their lives, completely lost the precious years between their twenties and their thirties acquiring skills to benefit their fellow men.Furthermore, they have suffered deprivations. Most of them have not had more than a dozen real nights sleep in all this time. Many have sacrificed their marriages and have lost the unique opportunity to see their children grow. So when they argue that the world owes them some compensation &ndash; in the form of wealth, respect and social status- their demands are not entirely without cause.&rdquo;While some claim that a 300 per cent pay increase is preposterous and that doctors are putting their interests first, it is important to realise that in Kenya, doctors have been poorly paid for decades and every negotiation or return-to-work formula the doctors agreed to, often turned out to be nothing more than a pacifier. The 300 per cent pay increase is not a figure concocted in the doctors minds, but it is in a Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) that was signed in 2013 between the Ministry of Health and Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentist Union (KMPDU) before the transfer of doctors to the counties in February 2014. The union had moved to court in June 2015, a case that was concluded on October 6 with the following directives; that the Ministry and the Union iron out any issues in the CBA within 30 days; the Salaries and Remuneration Commission be given 45 days from the date of the ruling to give input and on the day 90, the union would move the court to register the CBA. We are now in December 2016. Doctors have been patient. Doctors have been more than understanding not just for three years, but for decades. But doctors are human beings. In as much as being a doctor is referred to as a calling, we exist in a world where passion and calling do not pay bills, leaving doctors unable to access the same services they provide."I collapsed in theatre"&ldquo;I was performing an operation in Kitui District Hospital when I had a gynecological emergency. With no medical cover at the time, I was admitted to the same hospital. The surgeon was reluctant about operating on me, being a colleague, and so I was referred to Kenyatta National Hospital. Luckily the ambulance &ndash;now operational, was heading to Nairobi and I hitched a ride in the front seat with the driver. I was in pain and instead of being in the stretcher at the back, I was acting as the co-driver! On arrival at Kenyatta, I joined the queue &ndash; right at the back with no excuses or using the doctor card- and waited as everyone was attended to. When it was finally my turn, I had to &ldquo;talk&rdquo; to the gynecologists to operate on me for &ldquo;free&rdquo; which means no surgeon fees but I had to pay hospital fees including admission. You would imagine this made the costs cheaper, but not at all. I eventually had to call a couple of family members to ask them to contribute, as I simply couldn&rsquo;t afford to pay. I was a doctor who couldn&rsquo;t pay her own hospital bill.Perhaps the greatest irony is that the operation I was performing when I collapsed is the same operation that I underwent. And so after I was discharged, on that very same day, I drafted my resignation letter and without even proof reading, I walked to the offices of the medical services director and dropped it off. I never looked back.I was a doctor expected to provide essential services yet I could not afford the same essential services that I provided.&rdquo;Dr Elizabeth Wala, Regional Manager, Medical Services and Outreach Programmes, Amref Health Africa.A Ruptured Appendix&ldquo;On the evening of July 5, last year while on call in Machakos Level 5 hospital, I developed severe abdominal pains after breaking my fast.Initially I thought it was Peptic Ulcer Disease since I had been previously managed it. Since I couldn&rsquo;t afford the recommended investigation, I ended up taking medication for symptomatic relief. I normally carried the tablets with me.I struggled seeing patients in casualty throughout that night. Nurses around me constantly reminded me &ldquo;Daktari, wagonjwa ni wengi&rdquo; (Doctor, we have many patients), not knowing that I was probably the one who required emergency care.By the time it was getting to midnight, I had downed quite a few painkillers &ndash; exceeding the recommended dosage &ndash; but there was no relief.I couldn&rsquo;t handle it anymore. I had struggled throughout the night and 24 hours later, I was diagnosed with acute appendicitis. And when undergoing surgery, a ruptured appendix was found. My vitals had been dropping. I was unable to have a CT done in time. I couldn&rsquo;t afford it. I couldn&rsquo;t afford undergoing the operation in a private facility. But the surgeon at Machakos Level 5 Hospital was moved by my dire condition and if it weren&rsquo;t for him, I am not sure of what I would have done.I was a doctor who provided emergency services on a daily basis, but when I required the same emergency service, I could not afford it.Dr Abdulrazak Sharrif, Medical Officer, Machakos Level 5 HospitalNow, all doctors ask is for the government to realise that we too are human beings and if that doesn&rsquo;t resonate with them, to remember an agreement was made.OverviewThe strike, which commenced on December 5, stems from the Ministry of Health&rsquo;s failure to implement a twenty-seven page Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA), it signed with the Kenya Medical Practioner&rsquo;s and Dentist Union on June, 27 2013. It was to come into effect on July 1 the same year. A meeting where both parties, of their own free and voluntary association declared that the agreement was made in the interest of the health of the Kenyan people.Main points highlighted were: 1. Article IV : remuneration : Basic salary to include allowances but this was to remain suspended until such a time when the Salaries and Remuneration Commission provided clear guidelines. It placed the lowest paid doctor at Sh342,000 from Sh35,000 and the highest paid doctor, a specialist with the most experience, at Sh946,000. Entry point for the doctors was to be redefined by placing the junior doctor at a job group higher.Promotions: Doctors employed by the Ministry of Health were to promoted in a timely fashion based on merit and without prejudice or favour. A doctor who served in the same job group for three years would also merit a promotion. Additionally, the ministry was to increase posts among top job groups to accommodate promotions.Transfers: A doctor shall not be transferred at the initiative of the ministry more than once in two years unless in exceptional circumstances or a promotion. If initiated by the ministry, it must be with genuine regard to service need or own request.Work Hours: All doctors were to work for forty hours a week with compensation for any extra hours.Medical equipment: Regardless of facility, each doctor was to be reasonably equipped with the necessary tools and equipment necessary to perform their duties. If this was not the case, the doctor may raise grievances.Understaffing: The ministry shall endeavor to employ at least one thousand two hundred doctors per year for the next four years to reduce the gap in the number of doctors in the public sector.Health insurance: Doctors would be entitled to a medical allowance for the purchase of health insurance for themselves, their spouses and children.