THE adoption of the controversial amendments to the election law has unmistakably thrown the country back to Square One.The amended law, which requires registration and identification of voters and the transmission of results to be electronic, was a product of negotiations and intense public participation following the clamour for the removal of the outgoing IEBC commissioners.In other words, this amendment means returning the country to the street protests that brought to the table the need of the amendment in the first place.For a start, Cord has moved to court. The coalition has opted to explore a legal solution to this problem. This is a serious law &ndash; a product of intense public participation. The parliamentary select committee that negotiated this law received views from the general public. Memoranda were submitted and both corporate institutions and individuals appeared before the committee and made serious presentations that culminated in drafting this law.On the contrary, much as some insist this amendment was brought to the committee by the IEBC, it is now clear the amendment was not subjected to public participation as required by the law. The amendment only appeared before the committee on Tuesday. On this ground alone, any serious court should reverse Parliament&rsquo;s decision, particularly because it blatantly violates the people&rsquo;s fundamental rights and freedoms.This is a serious law, more serious than the 2014 Security Laws that were overturned by the courts.But the reality of this amendment is stark: It may lead to the impeachment of the government either in the streets or the courts. Kenyans left the streets after the parliamentary select committee was formed. The annulment of this law means that Cord may opt to go back to the streets to reclaim a victory it earned on the table and which has deceitfully been snatched away.Whichever way you look at it, the enactment of this law will lead to the impeachment of the government on the streets. The proposal for street battles will easily get traction. This could fire up the protests and lead to more bloody confrontations.Whatever it is, I foresee this amendment being overturned. If not through the courts then it will be through the streets. The amended laws will be re-amended either way &ndash; but the question is at what cost. More loss of human lives, destruction of property&hellip; Manyora teaches at the University of Nairobi.