My achievements can be seen, smelt and felt by everyone in Uasin Gishu, Governor Jackson Mandago has said. &ldquo;If you don&rsquo;t want to see what we have done you can chose to close your eyes but you will still smell or feel our achievements," he said.Mandago said his rivals are spreading lies, claiming the county government has not done anything since he was elected governor. All because the elections are around the corner, he said.The governor was speaking during the 53rd Jamhuri Day celebrations at the 64 Stadium in Eldoret town. He said he is sure of reelection next year if voters base their decision on performance scorecard.Mandago said under his tenure Eldoret has grown and now has more roads and walkways. The town deserves to be upgraded to a city, he said. Most of the roads in the town have been tarmacked through funding from World Bank, but Mandago said they are part of his successes.&ldquo;Those who talk about the World Bank projects not being my achievements should tell us where why other counties do not have their own World Bank projects. They should tell us if those in the other counties do not enough English to convince foreigners,&rdquo; said Mandago.The governor faces tough competition for the Jubilee Party ticket next year. The race for governor had been shaping into a two-horse affair &ndash; between him and Nandi Health chief officer Edward Serem, but the entry of billionaire businessman Bundotich Kiprop, popularly known as Buzeki, has complicated matters further.Although Buzeki has not formally announced his decision to run, his appearance at many functions where he has talked about county affairs has forced other aspirants back to the drawing board. Buzeki is highly respected within the county especially in business cycles and he has resources that will shake politics in the region.Buzeki is the founder of Buzeki Dairy and has wide interests in transport, export and import business as well as real estate. &ldquo;The work we have done as investors is well known and we want to bring the same management back home to benefit our county,&rdquo; he said two weeks ago. Buzeki said he had been approached by residents to run for governor. &ldquo;As a resident of this county, I have a calling to come back and help build it. The time has come for us to give back to the community and share the knowledge we have to benefit all of us,&rdquo; he said.