After taking a year to start her family, Janeth is about to restart her careerSince making her international debut while still a junior athlete, Janeth Jepkosgei&rsquo;s athletic career has remained consistent 18 years on.Jepkosgei made her debut at the 1999 World Youth Championships in Bydgoszcz in Poland competing in the 800m her speciality with her athletic career traced to when she was at Kapsumbeywo Primary School and Sing&rsquo;ore Girls High School.With her career on track spanning 18 years now, the former world 800m champion has posted impressive results in the international assignments she has represented Kenya in.The athlete who gave birth to a beautiful daughter is not yet done. She is still going strong on the track. Her form and consistency has put her in the same list of athletes like world multiple steeplechase king Ezekiel Kemboi who has had an equally long active running career.After a season away from running while expecting a baby, Janeth has promised to bounce back into full swing next year as the country prepares for the IAAF World Championships in London.She terms herself a winner this season despite not making it to the Rio Olympic Games. She terms the birth of Becky Olympia Chepchirchir an Olympic gold medal enough. She also receiving the Pan African Humanitarian Award on Sport and Charity.&ldquo;This year (2016) has been special for me. I had a different experience. I gave birth to my daughter. Being a mother is a special feeling,&rdquo; Jepkosgei told The Star.&ldquo;I named her Olympia because I missed the Olympics and it was like going to Rio. So I won my personal gold through her birth,&rdquo; she added.Jepkosgei will commence her training in January in preparation for the season that will be crucial for Kenya as the country seeks to defend their overall title won at the Beijing championships last year.Kenya topped the world with sixteen medals of seven gold, six silver and three bronze ahead of Jamaica and United States of America in that order.&ldquo;For now we are busy with the festivities ensuring that even the less-fortunate in the society get a bite of food through our help. However, I will start my training in January as I prepare for the season. I don&rsquo;t want to specifically say I am targeting the London World Championships. I just want to come back and enjoy athletics. There will be so many events in the season including the Diamond league,&rdquo; Jepkosgei said.Jepkosgei&rsquo;s Pan African Humanitarian award was bestowed on her during a leadership summit in November in Dubai after her charity efforts in society were recognised.The award was established in a bid to recognise men and women peace builders who create change from the grassroot to national levels in Africa.The athletes runs the Janeth Jepkosgei Athletic Youth Training Camp located at Kabiririsang in Nandi County which mentors upcoming athletes. The camp operates during April, August and December holidays.&ldquo;I was motivated by the award and feel encouraged to continue doing more in giving back to society. As we enjoy our fruits, let us also make an impact in the society,&rdquo; she said.Jepkosgei has mentored several athletes including the former world 800m champion Eunice Sum who rose to fame after winning the 2013 800m gold at the World Championships in Moscow.&ldquo;I always feel happy when I see those I have mentored perform well. It inspires me when your efforts are recognised,&rdquo; The athlete better known as &ldquo;Eldoret Express&rdquo; said.She credits her consistency on the track on hard work and self discipline.&ldquo;This has propelled me into ensuring I stay strong as an athlete.&ldquo;Nowadays athletes appear and disappear leaving many wondering where they go. It calls for self discipline and hard work and through that you will be able to last on the track. It also calls for carefully selecting the races to participate in and not to bite more than you can chew because you easily get exhausted,&rdquo; she advises.The 33 year-old athlete has been a crusader for &lsquo;running clean&rsquo; saying the anti-doping programmes should be taught at the grassroots&rsquo; level.&ldquo;I always encourage our upcoming athletes to train and run clean. Taking shortcuts will not bring glory. In fact it will destroy their careers,&rdquo; Jepkosgei says.After joining the IOC-sponsored High Performance Training Centre in Eldoret in 2001 under the guidance of Seoul, South Korea, Olympic 800m champion Paul Ereng, her star started shining.She won silver and gold medals in the same year at the Africa junior championships and World junior Championships in Kingston Jamaica in 800m.She now boasts of five gold medals from the world junior championships, Commonwealth Games, African Championships, World Championships and World athletic Final.She won a silver medal at the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing. Last year at the Beijing World Championships, she failed to advance to the 800m finals bowing out in the semis as her product Eunice Sum went ahead to get a bronze medal.Jepkosgei comes from the same village (Kabirirsang) as the Olympic 800m gold and silver medallist Wilfred Bungei and Wilson Kipketer.