IF you read the substance of the amendments, many of them actually make sense.It would be irresponsible to go into an election where you tie yourself to technology without an alternative. Technology being what it is can malfunction: So you need a fallback.You cannot have an election without a fallback, even in the best-developed countries. What we should be interrogating is the credibility of the fallback. Can the fallback be abused?How do we protect it so that it does not become an avenue to subvert the will of the electorate? That should be the conversation, not either or.That&rsquo;s Number One. Number Two, because these issues involve elections which obviously happen in a very heightened political environment, it&rsquo;s always important to try and seek consensus. You may not always get it, but at least go out of your way to seek it. At a time like this it cannot just be about absoluteness. Let us go to absoluteness if everything else has failed. I don't think everything has failed or has been tried and failed. There must be an overt attempt to try and reach a compromise. And I think the opportunities are there. By the time we say we have failed, even the people should be able to see that, yes, there have really been attempts to have a negotiated arrangement.President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga must understand that the country is bigger than the two of them. It is dangerous that we have reached such levels of mistrust about anything. It is almost getting to a point where it is impossible to have an election in which we will all accept a winner.If we are disagreeing on a simple thing, if we cannot reach an agreement on a simple thing like having a fallback for technology that is not infallible, then it means that on the President and the Opposition leader lies the responsibility of cooling the political temperature.By the time we get to the elections, whoever wins has a victory acceptable across the board. We must avoid reaching a point where that is impossible.On the issue of mass protests, I would say it&rsquo;s irresponsible. You see, at the end of the day, we must accept that we are either a democracy or we are not. Surely we must get to a point where we respect institutions.