DEPUTY President William Ruto and opposition leaders Raila Odinga and Musalia Mudavadi have described the Naivasha accident as the most horrific mishap of the year.The fuel tanker crash, explosion and fireball claimed 40 lives and caused many more injuries.The leaders made the comments separately, following the Saturday night tragic accident in the Karai area on the busy Nairobi-Naivasha road.&ldquo;Losing innocent Kenyans is painful and I ask all Kenyans to pray for the families at this difficult time,&rdquo; Ruto said.Raila urged all road users and the general public to cooperate with the security officers at the scene to avoid loss of lives and injury.&ldquo;This is a terrible time and a painful way to lose a family member or a friend, just when we are all looking forward to marking Christmas and celebrating the New Year,&rdquo; Raila, the Cord leader, said.Mudavadi, the ANC party leader, urged the government to harmonise the road safety agencies' roles to avoid harrowing accidents.He said the accident puts to question the operational mandates of the police, the National Transport and Safety Authority and the emergency services in ensuring road safety. &ldquo;I am shocked that so many perished before any meaningful rescue mission could reach them. This is an indication that the managements of certain sections of roads create death traps for unwitting Kenyans,&rdquo; Mudavadi said.Speaker of the National Assembly Justin Muturi and Chief Justice David Maraga also joined other Kenyans in mourning with the bereaved families and relatives. Muturi noted that waking up to such horrific news is not just tragic for the country, but a painful blow to the families and relatives. He challenged the relevant authorities to move in and have the issues raised addressed. &ldquo;The manner in which those lives have been lost is just heart-wrenching: So sad. On behalf of the National Assembly, I convey my heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families and relatives. Those injured, I wish them quick recovery,&rdquo; Muturi said. The Chief Justice said, &ldquo;It is a sad event which has hit us hard as a country and more particularly the families and the relatives of those affected."According to Mudavadi, part of the problem is competing roads traffic management agencies and the many unregulated diversions.&ldquo;Many sections of the road are glaring death traps because of the harrowing experience of traffic logjams created by erection of roadblocks, bumps and traffic checks that create the potential of horrifying tragic accidents,&rdquo; he said. Chairman of the Council of Governors Peter Munya (Meru) urged Kenyans to be cautious during this festive season. "I urge Kenyans to be aware of the possible dangers that may arise when danger strikes," Munya said.