THAT Sammy Makove has retired from the Insurance Regulatory Authority is no news. What is news is what the person named to act in his place is doing. We are told that the acting CEO has been throwing his weight around and sometimes ignoring instructions from the board. Those in the know say other directors are also unhappy with his style and some of the decisions he is making and are hoping the board will soon find a competent outsider to take over the critical institution.***** A second-term MP from a border constituency in Western Kenya and a key Jubilee point man in the area has left his constituencies wondering why he was elected. The locals are annoyed by his behaviour and claim the man, who chairs a committee in the National Assembly, has been turning young form four leavers into his wives. The MP, who is also on the spot for inflating school bus projects, recently married a young girl who operated an M-Pesa shop in one of the wards and now has upgraded her by opening for her a salon in the capital city&rsquo;s elite Karen estate. He now has four wives after the first one left him.***** A local bank is doing all it can to cover-up and cover-over a major heist (of more than Sh200 million) siphoned from its coffers by its members of staff. It is reported that some staffers connived with some individuals and sent millions of shillings from the bank into the individuals&rsquo; accounts. A huge amount was withdrawn by different account holders before the bank discovered the theft and alerted the DCI, who ordered the freezing of the accounts. Although a few have been charged in court, most are being persuaded to pay back the money.**** JUNIOR police officers in Parklands, Westlands and Spring Valley are complaining that their seniors are assigning them to guard private property whose leases are near expiry without any court order. According to the cops, their seniors are working in cahoots with a prominent city Jubilee politician who identifies unoccupied plots and claims grabbers will invade them. Once the cops have been assigned, the politician looks for the owners and demands security fees that are then shared with the senior cops while the government and the junior cops don&rsquo;t receive a penny. In the event that the property owners don&rsquo;t cooperate, the politician mobilises goons who invade the property as a way of blackmailing the owner to pay protection fees. About five properties are under 24-hour guard by the police.