Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi&rsquo;s homecoming party after questioning by the EACC on Wednesday turned violent after supporters of two politicians clashed.The commotion between the supporters of Malindi MP Willy Mtengo and woman representative Aisha Jumwa lasted for the better part of the rally at the Malindi Municipal Stadium.Mtengo&rsquo;s personal assistant Emmanuel Nzai was seriously injured, while Jumwa&rsquo;s supporter Harun Bakari was roughed up and kicked out of the venue. Nzai suffered a fractured rib and is admitted at the Tawfiq Hospital in Malindi.Some people accused Jumwa of hitting Nzai in the neck as he stepped off the podium. But Jumwa denied attacking Nzai. The Star journalist, who was present, did not see Jumwa hit the PA, but he saw him fall down.The scuffle started immediately after the governor, Senator Stewart Madzayo and MCAs arrived at the stadium. Jumwa had arrived earlier and was the master of ceremonies. Caught by surpriseWhen Mtengo arrived, he went straight to the podium, grabbed a microphone and started addressing the crowd only to be heckled and booed by Jumwa&rsquo;s supporters, who shouted &ldquo;Mtengo must go, Mtengo must go&rdquo;.All this happened as Jumwa, who is eyeing the Malindi MP seat, watched.Kingi intervened and tried to calm them down. The Star heard him tell the two leaders, &ldquo;I did not want anything to do with politics, we came as a family&rdquo;. It emerged that Jumwa had mobilised her supporters, which caught Mtengo by surprise.The supporters of Mtengo and Jumwa adorned ODM-branded T-shirts with images of the leaders they support. Kingi told the supporters that they should not be divided as it would give room to their rivals &ndash; Jubilee &ndash; to penetrate their camp. The crowd seemed to calm down but still shouted &ldquo;Mtengo must go&rdquo; as the MP, the governor, the woman representative, the senator and the MCAs watched.After MCAs were introduced, MC Mathias Kazungu invited the MP to the podium as the host to welcome the other ODM leaders.When Mtengo climbed the podium, his supporters chanted in solidarity with him. &ldquo;I am the Malindi MP, anybody who comes must be respectful,&rdquo; Mtengo said.Things took a dramatic turn when Jumwa stood up and Mtengo&rsquo;s supporters booed and heckled her. Jumwa&rsquo;s efforts to control the crowd were unsuccessful, forcing the governor to intervene again to restore calm. Jumwa walked out of the rally with all her supporters. They marched to Alaskan Grounds, where she held a parallel rally. Jumwa accused Mtengo of being a Jubilee mole.Her supporters warned Kingi against taking sides or dictating who they should elect Malindi MP. Journalists visited Nzai at the Tawfiq Hospital at night, where doctors&rsquo; reports showed he suffered a fractured rib. kingi appears before eaccOn Monday, Kingi had appeared before the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission for questioning over expenditure of Sh51 million. He was to answer questions on how the money was allegedly stolen through the Ifmis. He was also summoned over the alleged purchase of 11 acres of bus park land in Mtwapa for Sh308 million.The Kilifi government obtained court orders on Friday, compelling the national government to freeze the assets and accounts of companies alleged to have stolen the money. Kingi said they had sued the five Nairobi companies &ndash; Daima One Enterprises, Leadership Edge Associates, Kilingi Investment, Makegra Supplies and Zohali Supplies &ndash; over the financial irregularities.