The Independent Policing Oversight Authority yesterday was enjoined in a case in which a security operation has been blocked in Laikipia county.Also enjoined as an interested party is the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights. The Samburu community claims security operations are brutal, people are killed, evicted from their homes and their property destroyed in the guise of restoring law and order and seizing illegal weapons.Justice Edward Muriithi extended orders stopping Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery from carrying out the security operation in Laikipia. He urged the government to find less restrictive ways to handle security without invading people s homes.Cattle rustling, raids and clashes are common. Lives have been lost, property destroyed. Hence, the operationlThe community, through its representative Lekemario Yiaro, filed the case on Monday, claiming the planned operation is unconstitutional and illegal. They called it an outdated method of dealing with any perceived crime. It says it should not be condoned.Their lawyers John Khaminwa and Harun Ndubi yesterday said the court should order Nkaissery to prepare a comprehensive investigation report on the matter and file it in court. Muriithi said the two should be given an opportunity to respond first, failing which he will issue orders.The court also heard the Attorney General s office is yet to file its response. The office claimed it had only been served with the application on Tuesday and required more time to get instructions from the IG and the Interior CS.The judge directed the matter to be heard on December 19. It was ordered by Nkaissery and his Devolution counterpart Mwangi Kiunjuiri.Muriithi, however, allowed the continued presence of security personnel in the county to maintain order.The Samburu petitioners say they have lost community members in the so-called security operation.They said over the last few years, the government, through the police, has subjected them to untold suffering through forced evictions. We have had to make this petition to stop the police from harassing our people and find a less restrictive, less oppressive ways and means of maintaining law and order, while respecting and upholding the rights individuals, the petitioners said. Petitioners say Samburu people have been killed by police in past operations and cattle stolen in retaliation, to destroy their economic livelihood.