The Education ministry has released the guidelines on the 2017 academic year, which will strictly be enforced to curb cheating in national examinations.This year, there was not a single incident of cheating in both primary and secondary national examinations, according to CS Fred Matiang&rsquo;i. The CS on Thursday said the academic calendar has created an examination season when schools are closed to allow concentration on exam administration. This year, the schools were closed early. Only candidates remained in schools to sit their exam without external interference. &ldquo;We&rsquo;ve still provided an examination season, a period when schools will be closed to allow us to concentrate on exam administration,&rdquo; Matiang&rsquo;i said. &ldquo;This worked well for us and we hope we can do better next year. All teachers, except those involved in the administration of practical subjects and boarding facilities, will be expected to remain out of schools during the examination season, as was the case this year.&rdquo;He spoke during the release of the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education examination results at the Shimo la Tewa Secondary School in Mombasa. Matiang&rsquo;i said they have learnt many lessons from the first year of implementing the new tough exam reforms and they plan to build on the successes made. &ldquo;We shall use this to address the challenges learnt to ensure we do better next year,&rdquo; he said.The CS said the role of principals as centre managers in their schools will be upheld. In the last exams, their roles included collecting examination papers from the distribution centres. &ldquo;I wish to commend the school heads for performing this role excellently. We would not be having examination results worth celebrating had the principals and head teachers not delivered to the highest standards as they did,&rdquo; Matiang&rsquo;i said. He said this year they contracted about 74, 810 professionals to administer the 2016 KCSE examinations compared to 2015&rsquo;s 51,717. The professionals included 9,468 supervisors, 33,159 invigilators, 19,698 security officers, 2,290 drivers, 9,157 centre managers, 346 subcounty commissioners and 692 education officers.