The Luhya spokesperson will be unveiled at a rally at 2pm today in Bukhungu Stadium, Kakamega county.The spokesman will be tasked with authoritatively negotiate on behalf of the community.The event is expected to be attended by thousands of leaders and community members.The Bukhungu Declaration will shape the political landscape against ODM and Jubilee Party who are believed to be making inroads within the region through a divide and rule scheme.Ayub Savula, the secretary of a 25-member committee tasked with the matter, yesterday said the spokesman will become the automatic Luhya presidential candidate in the next general election.&ldquo;President Uhuru Kenyatta was unveiled by former Transport minister John Michuki as the spokesperson of the Kikuyu community and he became the President. Same to opposition leader Raila Odinga who is the spokesperson and presidential candidate in Nyanza,&rdquo; the Lugari MP said.The event follows a survey conducted by the University Of Nairobi Economic Department to identify the strongest and most popular leader in the region. It was sponsored by Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli.&ldquo;No one knows the candidate since the poll was kept at a KCB branch in Nairobi. We expect the bank manager to deliver it here tomorrow under tight security. Both Atwoli and the bank manager do not even know the name of the person in the poll results,&rdquo; Savula said.UoN professionals from the department will be on the ground to explain the process used to identify the candidate and both areas as well as individuals who took part. They will also explain the method used and give the exact figures obtained.Savula said all the presidential candidates have been invited to the rally. They include Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi, Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula and Former Lugari MP Cyrus Jirongo.Clan elders, politicians, religious and opinion leaders have also been invited.&ldquo;We have also invited other leaders and communities from the region who are not Luhyas. They include Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong, the Teso community and other communities in Mt Elgon,&rdquo; Savula said.The appointed spokesperson will start campaigns to unify the region ahead of the next elections. "We will walk around with him across the region and listen to our people so that we move ahead together. We will ask them to register as voters to support our demands at the national level," Savula said.The Lugari legislator said the region must control or form the next government."We have the numbers and cannot accept to be used, divided or manipulated again," Savula said.