Politicians yesterday eulogised former assistant minister John Keen as a selfless man, committed to serving the country.Cord co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka, Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery and Narc leader Martha Karua were among the leaders who attended the requiem service held yesterday at his residence in Karen.Keen died on Christmas Day at the Aga Khan University Hospital in Nairobi. He was a former MP for Kajiado North and assistant minister in the Office of the President.Kalonzo described Keen as a man who had no tolerance for injustice, an attribute he said landed him in problems with the Jomo Kenyatta administration. He said Keen looked beyond tribe.Nkaissery said Keen, who was also the Democratic Party secretary general, mentored him in politics. Nkaissery assured attendees of a peaceful election. He urged politicians to play mature politics and avoid utterances that could instill fear among Kenyans.&ldquo;This country is greater than each one of us. We need to be mindful of what we say and realise as leaders that we have a responsibility towards the people,&rdquo; he said.Karua said Keen mentored her. &ldquo;When I joined politics, he mentored me alongside Joseph Munyao. Let&rsquo;s come together and ensure he gets a dignified send off,&rdquo; she said. Karua said Keen was a great politician who spoke his mind. George Muhoho, the former chairman of the Kenya Airports Authority, said Keen was instrumental in the formation of DP. &ldquo;He was a great politician who brought change,&rdquo; he said.Kajiado Governor David Nkedianye said he joined politics because of Keen. He said he was Keen&rsquo;s personal assistant in 1992. &ldquo;He was a man who desired change. He may be gone but what he did is out there and can be seen,&rdquo; Nkedianye said.Others present were Kajiado West MP Moses ole Sakuda who was the master of ceremony, UDM presidential candidate Philip Murgor, senators Sammy Leshore (Samburu), Stephen ole Ntutu (Narok), Peter Mositet (Kajiado). MPs present were Joseph Manje (Kajiado North) and Korei Lemein (Narok South). Supreme Court judge Isaac Lenaola was also present. Keen&rsquo;s funeral will take place at his Osilale Ranch in Namanga Kajiado county tomorrow. He died aged 86.