&ldquo;Knowledge makes a man unfit to be a slave&rdquo; &mdash; Frederick DouglassThe main plank of the ultimately victorious 2013 Uhuruto presidential election campaign juggernaut was framed thus: &ldquo;The ICC cases on Kenya are centrally a foreign, imperialist agenda designed to ensure that Uhuru Muigai Kenyatta and William Samoei Ruto do not run for the presidency of the country. This calumnious connivance is meant to allow foreigner-favorite Raila Amolo Odinga safe passage to the presidency. It is therefore a ploy to subvert and defeat the popular will of the Kenyan people. And civil society (&ldquo;evil society&rdquo;) is part of this heinous plot.&rdquo;This narrative did not worry itself with any references to context, facts or logic. Not a shred of evidence or an iota of fact was provided to back up these grave claims. None! Nevertheless, the Uhuruto ticket ultimately prevailed. Emotion, rather than fact and reason won the day. Heart prevailed over mind; the masses had spoken by what the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) said, again very problematically, was a 50.07% victory margin. Uhurutocracy, hence, carried the day and Uhurutolootocracy was born. For as was dishearteningly but irrevocably confirmed at the State House Anti-Corruption, Governance and Accountability Summit this mid-October, the looting and egregious mismanagement of state resources is so deeply embedded that even the head of state and commander in chief of Kenya&rsquo;s armed forces can do nothing further about it. As luminary commentator and public intellectual David Ndii unhappily but accurately postulated, the game warden and poacher are one and the same! Of course, the ICC cases on Kenya were successfully defeated by Uhuruto: despite the vehement and loud protestations of ICC Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda that key witness had been tampered with and evidence had not been forthcoming from the government of Kenya. Many could argue it is impossible to reasonably expect that one can provide or allow to be provided any proof of their reported or alleged wrongdoing in circumstances in which they have full control of that proof or providers of the proof. That in fact, is a great point! Indeed, a holistic reading of Articles 73 (1) and 75 (1) indicates that these kinds of circumstances were envisaged and some direction was provided by the constitution. In cases of a conflict of person interest on the one hand and a public or official interest on the other, then the latter should prevail. The question in this specific instance of the ICC cases on Kenya, hence, is whose interests actually prevailed? Or put another way: did public/state interest merge with the personal interest of the accused on their assent to the presidency and execution of the powers of their state offices? This, it is submitted, would provide rich and availing material for a riveting social science PHD thesis. But, moving on swiftly, what has eventually resulted is the following: first, the asphyxiation of the ICC cases on Kenya immediately robbed Uhuruto an ogre with which to anymore scare. The bogey-man to irresistibly and hypnotically fix the public stare onto and, with it in place, excite and animate deep fear or loathing or both was gone! Secondly, the unbridled lootocractic proclivities of Uhuruto have created deep disaffection towards it among a populace that daily struggles to make a dollar a day. The righteous outrage and indignation, in some cases, even bilious animus against the kleptocratic tendencies of the regime is clearly palpable. In addition, the disturbing questions about the conduct of the 2013 elections were never truly answered or buried and continue to animate today&rsquo;s political discourse. Moreover, it is of no help to Uhuruto that one of its inherent and self-injurious identity and character flaws has been that it has made no pretense to be inclusive. No &ldquo;nusu-mkate&rdquo;! &ldquo;Tunakula nyama nyinyi mna meza mate!&rdquo; (We are eating meat while you swallow saliva). This discourse and approach may reap huge dividends in the Uhuruto heartlands but, as critics of Mutahi Ngunyi&rsquo;s &ldquo;Tyranny of Numbers&rdquo; hypothesis noted, a proper projection and analysis of Kenya&rsquo;s census/demographic figures manifestly demonstrates one thing: no two of Kenya&rsquo;s big five can legitimately preside over Kenya&rsquo;s political jungle. And here, it is not Kenya&rsquo;s magnificent &ldquo;big five&rdquo; of the wildlife variety being referred to. So it should be no surprise that, now, on the eve of a general election, the regime has suddenly &ldquo;discovered&rdquo; that some people would like to conduct civic education: which aims to enlighten the citizenry on which questions to ask when assessing the political credentials of the different political party tickets that will shortly come knocking to either retain or gain power. What to do? According to the Uhuruto political playbook: first, find a new bogey-man, preferably foreign: tick &ndash; the International Foundation for Electoral Systems (IFES)/the United States Agency for International Development (USAID)/foreign donors. Second, find local collaborators: tick &ndash; &ldquo;evil&rdquo; society. Raila Odinga can be let off on this one. Third, now beat the crap out of them! Cue Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s, Aden Duale&rsquo;s and Fazul Mohamed&rsquo;s recent, frenzied and vicious onslaught. Tick! Ngure wa Gachanja is a human rights and democratic governance practitioner. The views expressed in this column are entirely his own and in no way represent or articulate those of any organizations he may be associated with.