Music is a part of our lives, just like art. They interact in different ways like in the running exhibition that brought together artist Richard Njogu, sculptor Cleophas Mandela Ondula and music production company Midi Minds. Named Records and Resin, the exhibition&mdash;held at the new art centre, Fundii at Karura Avenue, focused on similarities between the two different artists. Cleophas sais "I do sculptures with relief and it comes with the 3D feel in the art itself." "I focused on tribes because it was a way to remind the people on what life was back then," he adds. For Richard, the element of culture and the impact music from as far back as 1970s still have on current events is why he decided on musicians. "There are also art work of women in head wraps as a way to show the connection between music and culture." he says. In this exhibition, Richard features musicians like Elvis Presley, Carlos Santana, John Lennon, Madonna, Ray Charles, and Aretha Franklin among others. His elaborate and unique placing of broken vinyl gives the perfect creative style that draws in any viewer (and buyer). One of the main things that stood out with the artwork was the placement of the respective singer's vinyl records on each artwork, complete with their name and the vinyl album."It was a way of finding people who have influenced something, like introducing an idea. Like Elvis is the pioneer of Rock and Roll. It was quite random as I had to work with what I can access," he says, "the use of the label was deliberate to give the artwork an original and authentic feel."Richard sources the records from town or from individuals, most of who don't need the records for one reason or another. For Cleophas, his idea for the exhibition was to preserve history as seen in the Mandela piece. The portraiture of the former leader is created with fibreglass, acrylic and resin, materials which Cleophas has been working with for a while. Also in keeping up with the contemporary times, Cleophas has a portraiture named Queen of Katwe, in reference to the Lupita Nyongo-starring film of the same name. He used fibre glass before finishing with resin. So where does the music come in?Midi Minds, run by Dylan Sejpal, is company focusing on audio solutions and music production. "When I was studying music in London, I went to an art gallery exhibition that had dedicated rooms with certain paintings and musicians and music producers were asked to pick a painting and make a music piece for each. I thought it was an interesting concept," Dylan says. Four months ago he visited Fundii, where the Access Competition was taking place. Upon seeing Richard's work, he thought about making music to it. "We choose his Fela Kuti piece because it comes with a lot of history obviously and because it makes more sense for us in Kenya compared to other pieces he has worked on," Dylan says.e the artist was working. The recording is done in such a way that when a listener moves closer, they are able to listen to one of Kuti's famous speeches and songs from his 1972 album, giving them a complete audiovisual experience. For Cleophas, Midi Music opted to work with the Woman in Red piece due to its "representation of African women: sexy but at the same time suffering from the modern day practices that we are enjoying right now." To capture this, Midi Minds opted to use soundscapes from Nobel Prize Laurate, Wangari Maathai's interview recorded years ago.