President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto should thank the ICC for not barring them from vying in the 2013 general election, Raila Odinga has said. The opposition leader said this on Tuesday following Uhuru's hint that Kenya may join the list of countries withdrawing from the International Criminal Court. He criticised The Hague-based court as a tool of global power politics and not the justice it was built to dispense. More on this:&nbsp;Foreigners plotting regime change in Kenya - Uhuru Also read:&nbsp;Uhuru hints at plans to pull Kenya out of ICC as country marks 53 years of independenceBut Raila said:&nbsp; "The President and his DP were only allowed to vie by the ICC out of pity.&nbsp; They should not dare pull the nation out of the court." The ODM Presidential flag bearer also criticised the President for not addressing corruption during celebrations to mark the 53rd Jamhuri Day. He&nbsp;told Wiper party delegates in Kasarani, Nairobi, that Uhuru had failed to address the vice, which he described as Kenya's biggest problem. "It is a shame," he said in sentiments that were echoed by&nbsp; Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama. Muthama claimed the government's plan to pull out of the ICC was connected to intentions to rig next year's general election.Kakamega Senator Bonny Khalwale said the o pposition will continue seeking funds from international bodies and donors, for as long as this is not prohibited by the Elections Act. Government Spokesman Eric Kiraithe had claimed that unnamed politicians were seeking funding from political players in the region to destabilise the Jubilee administration. The initial government target was thought to be Opposition chief Raila Odinga, who spearheaded numerous street protests to force out the IEBC bosses.But Khalwale said: "The President should read the&nbsp;Act and understand that we &nbsp;will continue receiving funds and donations from foreign bodies. W e will not use the money to shake his government, we will use the money to remove you from the government." Read:&nbsp;President Uhuru Kenyatta's speech during 53rd Jamhuri Day celebrationsIn his Independence Day address, Uhuru also asked international organisations to refrain from trying to influence the outcome of the 2017 general elections. He said such interference, through channeling of funds into the country in the guise of supporting good governance or civic education, will not be encouraged."I want to caution those members of the international community taking these actions that the Kenyan people do not look kindly on such actions," he said.Also read:&nbsp;Uhuru confident of winning 2017 presidential poll, urges peaceful campaigns