Devolution is fundamentally one of the most transformative aspects of the 2010 Constitution. To the framers, the main objective of decentralisation was to devolve power, resources and representation down to the grassroots level. Under the old system of governance, the decisions affecting the grassroots were made in Nairobi. Consequently, investments and programmes meant to improve the &lsquo;village economy&rsquo; took too long to be implemented, and potentially got lost in the bureaucracy. This is why devolution has fundamentally altered service delivery and economic growth in the country for the better.When most people talk about the need to grow the economic landscape in the counties, they automatically expect the governments to fix it. I am of the humble opinion that for devolution make any meaningful progress, the private sector is required to step up, collaborate with the county governments and structure their businesses to reflect the new governance system.One of the key challenges facing the counties is how to collaborate with the private sector in actualising devolution and ensuring its success. Since private sector players are not directly involved in matters governance, there is a need to think beyond the traditional understanding of the role played by private businesses in the growth of county economies.In terms of governance, how do we, as the pioneer county governments, rope in the private sector to ensure there is no feeling of disengagement, especially when it comes to decision making? This is where business lobby groups such as the Kenya Private Sector Alliance and the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce have a huge role to play in ensuring the interests of the investors are factored when it comes to drafting of business and investment-friendly laws at the grassroots level. The counties are tasked with providing and encouraging the creation of a favourable environment, whicht will ensure prosperity and sustainable economic growth. For any meaningful progress to be realised, a structured partnership between the two is required. A basic difference between the counties and the private ventures is the profit motive. Businesses tend to do more with less while government will focus on doing more with more revenues collected. The differences should, however, complement rather than separate the two players. It makes every economic sense for the counties to leverage on their assets such as land, transport, amenities, training institutions and human resource to attract, retain and collaborate with the investors. For instance, in Narok county, the availability of trained human resource capital from Maasai Mara University is already an irresistible appeal for the private sector businesses setting up in the county.The counties should equally strive to differentiate themselves when pitching for investment opportunities from the private sector. I believe each county should focus more on their uniqueness rather than being fixated with what other counties are concentrating on when attracting private sector investments. They cannot isolate themselves from the private sector and expect to single-handedly succeed in devolution. For them to succeed, they must understand that the economy of the county is led by the private sector.There are a number of challenges and concerns that have been raised by the private sector against the counties, ranging from taxation to weak legal business framework and issues applying to respect for the rule of law. The challenges highlighted require a holistic approach to acceptable solutions from both players in government and the private sector. Nothing can be achieved with intimidation or strong arm tactics by any of the players. When you look at how people lift themselves out of poverty, it is by being provided with capital to start their businesses, it is by giving the youth and the disadvantaged groups a chance to compete on a level ground for government tenders. It is by providing sheds and stalls for the small businesspeople at the grassroots level. Real GDP growth is not only achieved by government investments but by citizens who take it upon themselves to create opportunities and employment.There is no doubt that these two players will be required to participate in mobilising resources for economic development at the grassroots economies as job creation and consumer consumption go hand-in -hand in improving the county economies.