The Kenya Bureau of Standards receives seven per cent of the value of the Import Standardisation Mark stamp printed by an Indian company since 2014. However, the original intention was allegedly for Kebs to get 40 per cent of the value.Madras Security Printers Private Ltd prints the stamps and keeps 93 per cent of the 49 cents value of the stamp in the deal sealed two years ago. The contract was signed by Kebs MD Charles Ongwae and the Madras Security Printers MD Joseph Pratap Singh and export manager Rajah Sunder Singh in 2015.The contract is for a minimum of 500,000 ISM stamps annually, but, according to Ongwae, the demand for the ISM stamps fluctuates monthly between 20 million and 50 million.The value of 50 million stamps would be Sh24,500,000 monthly, of which Sh22,785,000 would go to Madras Security Printers and just Sh1,715,000 to Kebs. However, the original split reportedly was supposed to be 60-40, with Kebs retaining 40 per cent of the value of stamps. The split was reportedly altered after the contract was awarded in 2015. The 93-7 split is described as &ldquo;exorbitant&rdquo; by a local printer.Treasury was reportedly reluctant to give the necessary approval for Kebs to sign the contract with MSP at that percentage share, but was eventually prevailed on to agree. Treasury communications boss Maina Kigaga declined to comment. The revised percentage would increase Madras Security Printers&rsquo; revenue by 33 per cent, or Sh8,085,000 monthly, if it was selling 50 million ISM stamps. Madras Security Printers denied any alteration in the revenue sharing and maintained that it remains the same. &ldquo;No, it is not true. The agreement as it stands today is the same as how it was when it was signed.The agreement and pricing is as per the tender terms and conditions.There is no change to the revenue sharing agreement. The allegations are false,&rdquo; a spokesman for Madras Security Printers emailed the Star without giving his name.Ongwae said the revenue split was decided after the evaluation of the bids. Kebs was only providing security, electricity and water for the production of the stamps while Madras Security Printers does the whole production, including security features.&ldquo;Each bidder was asked to submit both a technical and financial proposal as part of the bidding proposal. As per the tender specifications in the bidding documents, it was a requirement for each bidder to state the revenue sharing formula which formed the basis for the financial evaluation. Kebs never proposed in the tender document neither during the contract signing process any revenue sharing formula. The winning bidder Madras Security Printers Private Limited proposal of revenue sharing was 93 per cent to the bidder and Kebs gets 7 per cent. That was the most responsive evaluated bid,&rdquo; Ongwae said. The importer bears the cost of the stamp which must be fixed to every imported product brought into Kenya before it is sold.The Kebs MD said the contract with Madras Security Printers was signed in 2015 for three years.&ldquo;Kebs has signed a contract with Madras Security Printers Private Ltd for supply of security stamps for track and trace solution for three years at a cost of 49 cents per sticker. The contract is operational (now running to the second year) with a validity period of three years. Kebs contracts are signed by the accounting officer for Kebs (the MD),&rdquo; Ongwae said.The IMS stamps are affixed to all imported goods before they are sold to consumers.The stamps are a mark of quality assurance about the health and safety of products including food, toys, electrical goods and alcohol. The ISM mark contains details of the import, brand name, product number, certificate of compliance and country of origin.Ongwae says the stamps have significantly reduced the number of substandard goods entering the country and provided a level playing field for Kenyan manufacturers.Ongwae said Kebs fixed the maximum price at 49 cents to give no excuse to raise prices.&ldquo;Anything above 50 cents would have increased the price of goods which would have trickled to the consumer. We didn&rsquo;t want that to happen,&rdquo; Ongwae said.A open international tender for the supply of secure standardisation mark stickers/stamps was floated in January 2015.Five bidders, namely Madras Security Printers Private, Systemedia Technologies, Sintel Security Printers Solutions, Pinnacore Printers, SICPA Security Solutions SA and De La Rue, submitted tenders.The Kebs Tender Committee awarded Madras Security Printers Private 80 per cent while SICPA Security Solutions was awarded 68 per cent in the technical evaluation which had a 70 percent pass mark. Consequently the tender was awarded to MSP.After the contract was signed, MSP set up an Import Standardization Mark production plant within Kebs premises along Popo Road off Mombasa Road on the South C estate in Nairobi. &ldquo;The previous importation mark did not have security features and the taxpayer paid for it. The new ISM sticker has made it easier for KRA to collect revenue on imported goods because KRA will not clear any goods unless they bear the Certificate of Conformity from Kebs,&rdquo; Ongwae says.