Removing over 2000 ghost workers from City Hall s payroll has been Mercy Kamau s biggest achievement since she was appointed to take charge the Public Service Management docket in Nairobi County government.This has effectively saved the county over Sh600 million per month, in salaries alone. The ghost workers were revealed during three audits she conducted since 2013. When we started the audit, we had almost 15,000 workers on the payroll but today, we are about 13, 000, Kamau says.The employees were actually scaled down to 11,000 at one point, but the county recruited another 2,000 workers.Kamau, whose PSM docket oversees the welfare of City Hall s 13,000 workers, says, The county inherited an unmotivated and divided workforce, with no structures for promotion, remuneration and training. They had never been promoted for over 10 years. There were no procedures to promote workers. So their morale was very low and therefore their productivity was hampered. Kamau, an advocate of the High Court, says as the audits were being conducted, the county embarked on establishing structures and transforming the workforce. Right Placing of the workers has been done and culture change programme rolled out to rid off the county the old Kanjo Culture. We have transformed the workforce and they have embraced a corporate culture which is service oriented, servant leadership, she says.The employees have been given lessons on devolution, service delivery, how to think like government and service delivery in the new dispensation.Kamau has an impressive track record, having been a board member of many government institutions among them Kenya Revenue Authority and Coffee Board of Kenya.She is a lay reader at ACK St. Mark Anglican Church, Westlands. She was also a lecturer at Moi University and has been a director at Paramount and Family Banks.In 2012, she made a decision that many thought was not well informed: she joined Governor Evans Kidero s campaign team. We want the relationship between the Nairobians and our workers to be a positive one. Not hate, not suspicion, not pain, not brutality, she said.The executive said that the county is re-engineering and shrinking its workforce by phasing out ageing employees and using ICT to reduce number of employees to manageable level of about 8000.