Shujaa were relegated into the Challenge Trophy of the Dubai Sevens tournament yesterday after falling to Australia 12-17.Shujaa held on tight for the first four minutes before a defensive error at the five yards saw Australia take an early lead. Ed Jenkins powerfully burst between Brian Tanga, Nelson Oyoo and Augustine Lugonzo to score in the top right corner. A turnover in the five-metre line resulted into another try by Australia through Charlie Taylor shortly before Willy Ambaka pulled back a try for Shujaa in the end of the first half. Brian Tanga added the extras as the first half ended 10-7 in favour of Australia.Darwin Mukidza came in for Augustine Lugonzo in the second half as Shujaa made several attempts to break the Australian defence. Oyoo put up a strong defence to stop two tries in the second half as Billy Odhiambo added a second try for Shujaa to take a 12-10 lead. Tanga missed the conversion. With 30 seconds to play, Shujaa seemed to be headed for victory until Charlie Taylor burst on the wing to grab a late try for Australia which was duly converted by James Stannard to seal the match 17-12.Earlier in the opening match, Kenya Sevens team failed to keep their heads up when they came down tumbling to France Les Blues 14-27. Shujaa ran two back-to-back tries through Oyoo and Ambaka in the first and third minute with Augustine Lugonzo converting both. Shujaa then switched off, allowing France to claw back two tries through Terry Bouhroua and Pierre-Gilles Lakafia and a conversion courtesy of Sacha Valleau as Shujaa led 14-12 into the breather. Les Blues capitalized on Shujaa s handling and defensive errors in the second half to score two other tries courtesy of Bouhroua s try and conversion and Valleau s try.Against Japan, Kenya still struggled to emerge 17-7 winners. Kenya took an early lead through Frank Wanyama s unconverted try in the 4th minute. The lead was cut short when Leon Ellison left Shujaa s defence gapping to score and convert his try. For a second, Shujaa seemed not to have settled throughout the game as they committed too many errors before Ambaka scored an unconverted try after an off-load from Lugonzo. The game, however, changed with the inclusion of Brian Tanga and Dan Sikuta.Japan wasted time with their scrum-down and were penalised as a result. Tanga quickly passed the ball to Sikuta, who smiled all the way to the try box before Tanga added the conversion to end the game high.Meanwhile, the Kenya Lionesses lost to Tribe Sevens 10-12 in the bronze final of the Dubai Sevens women s International Invitational category. They beat Tabusoro Angels 29-5 in the Cup quarter-final before narrowly falling to Belgium 12-17 in the semi-final.