Maria Mbeneka is no stranger to many, especially in legal circles, having vied unsuccessfully for a seat in the Law Society of Kenya earlier this year. She is also a notable lawyer with a bias towards conveyance, the transfer of ownership in property such as homes from one person to another.Mbeneka also practises in intellectual property law, which deals with issues such as copyright and trademark, as well as in family and civil law, dealing with matters such as successions.&ldquo;I have practised law for 13 years and they have been very rewarding,&rdquo; Mbeneka says.POLICE STATEIt is clear, therefore, that her journey to the busy and intimidating Kenyan courts did not start yesterday. In fact, her interest in the law is well linked to the fight for multiparty politics and democracy.Growing up in Nairobi, she would see the police every now and then making impromptu and frightening visits to her family's neighbourhood.Many residents would peep behind window curtains and closed doors, for this were different times and freedoms of expression and association were much more limited.They knew the police were not making courtesy calls or regular patrols to maintain security. They often came to arrest notable politician James Orengo, now a senator, who had become a person of interest for his outspoken views on democracy and governance.This was in the late eighties, and it went on through most of the nineties. In 1990, specifically, Mbeneka became even more aware of these visits by the police, when she had just joined form one in Machakos Girls High School.The sight of trouble, especially the kind that involves the police and jail cells, should have made any teenager recoil in fear, but those incidents significantly changed the course of young Mbeneka&rsquo;s life.&ldquo;I grew up in the same neighbourhood where notable persons in the fight for democracy such as Njeri Kabeberi, Maina Kiai and James Orengo lived. In fact, Maina Kiai gave me my first copy ever of the constitution at the time,&rdquo; she says.Often, Mbeneka would wonder what would make a person sacrifice their own freedom and comfort to fight for others. &ldquo;I would see Jaramogi Odinga make visits to James Orengo&rsquo;s house,&rdquo; she says.DEMOCRACY ADVOCATESThis means that unlike most teenagers, she had in a way a front-row seat to the time the one-party system began to unravel and people became bolder in their pursuit of democracy. She also saw in person political figures that her peers only read about in history books and could only imagine who they were.&ldquo;I knew then that I wanted to be a lawyer. After my fourth year, I did not, however, qualify to study law in Kenya, and my first option was to travel to the United Kingdom, but it was too expensive,&rdquo; Mbeneka says.She therefore joined Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University in India. Here, it was a requirement that she first studies a Bachelor in Social Legislation before the Bachelor of Law degree. It took her the specified five years to accomplish both, graduating with first class honours in the Bachelor of Law degree.Mbeneka was neither the only African or Kenyan studying law in India. Among the many others, there were two male law students, one senior the other her peer, who would later shape her career in very significant ways. But that would come later.Upon returning to Kenya, she joined the mandatory School of Law and should have consequently been admitted to the bar to practise in 2001 but she took a break to welcome her first child, a son. She also has a 10-year-old daughter.In the intervening years before Mbeneka would make it to the bar in 2003, she participated in very critical processes, such as the constitutional review in Bomas in 2002. These processes shaped her value system and work as an advocate.LAW FIRM PARTNERSHIPMbeneka joined the EK Kimani law firm in 2003. Kimani had also studied in India. She worked under his leadership for two years and in 2005, EK Kimani became Kimani Kabucho Mbeneka Advocates.She had made it as a partner in a law firm, a dream that had come just two years into her practice, with the two male students who, just like Mbeneka, had also travelled to study law in India years before.&ldquo;The main challenge we faced is that we were new faces and especially in legal matters, people take time to warm up to new faces. But we were not discouraged. We worked very hard to build a name and a profile to ensure that business picked up faster,&rdquo; Mbeneka says.It was not long before clients came calling and the business has kept growing.&ldquo;We were friends before business and shared similar experiences, having studied in India. This has made it very easy to form the kind of partnership where we might each have different clients but our responsibility to these clients is always singular,&rdquo; she says.In the absence of one partner, &ldquo;work does not stop. We step in for the interest of all our clients.&rdquo;For a lawyer, it is also very curious that she is also chair and director of Ghetto Radio 89.5FM, a Sheng station offering news, views and entertainment by people from the urban ghetto.&ldquo;I represented two artists in court and one was working for Ghetto Radio. The station was under a Trustee at the time and they were impressed with the work I did and I was brought on board to join legal advisory,&rdquo; she says.And the rest, as they say, is history. TRIBUNAL MEMBERSHIPMoving forward, by virtue of her practice, Mbeneka was appointed to join the Industrial Property Tribunal, where she was not only a member but the vice chair of the tribunal, serving between 2010 and 2013.&ldquo;The tribunal is a specialised court dealing with any matter touching on patenting, industrial designs, utility models, among others,&rdquo; she says. It also hears any appeals emerging from decisions made by the Kenya Industrial Property Institute director.&ldquo;If, for example, one applies for a patent to KIPI and they are not satisfied with the decision, the tribunal becomes the court of first instance, meaning that you do not go to the High Court but to the tribunal for the matter to be resolved,&rdquo; Mbeneka says.It is during her tenure where the team at the tribunal managed to successfully get the commercial division of the High Court to transfer all matters relating to patenting, industry designs and utility designs, among others, to be transferred to the tribunal, making it easier to fast-track such cases.Despite her many other interests, Mbeneka&rsquo;s work in court has not missed a beat.When in April this year she failed to capture a seat to act as a representative of the LSK in Nairobi, she knew one day she will have her chance to take another bite at the leadership pie.EALS LEADERSHIPThe chance did present itself in November this year, when the East Africa Law Society, an umbrella body of lawyers in the region, was due for fresh elections.&ldquo;I knew there would be vacancies at the EALS and I was determined to win this time,&rdquo; she says.Many saw this as an insurmountable mountain to climb, bearing in mind that since 1995, only one woman (Defence CS Raychelle Omamo) had held the position she was vying for. Omamo was the EALS vice president and the first woman to ever hold this position from 2003 to 2004. She was also a chair of the LSK from 2001 to 2003.So it was clear that Mbeneka was going to have to fit into very big shoes.Come election day during EALS' annual general meeting in Tanzania in November, and Mbeneka triumphed. Many are still wondering how she did it.Firstly, the EALS is the largest professional organisation in East Africa, and the lawyers are drawn from six countries: Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi and Zanzibar.The headquarters are in Arusha, Tanzania, and members must first be members of the law society in their respective countries.Lawyers do not, therefore, have membership as individuals. For instance, a lawyer in Kenya like Mbeneka herself would first have to be a member of LSK. Her counterpart in Rwanda would have to first be a member of Kigali Bar Association, and so on.So it is these country associations or societies that then join to become the EALS, and this is obviously no small matter.PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENTThe main focus of the regional legal society is the professional development of its members. It also agitates for constitutionalism, democracy, rule of law, good governance and protection and promotion of human rights in East Africa.&ldquo;I am not taking this position lightly, I want to make my contribution towards ensuring that the current leadership leaves behind a strong legacy,&rdquo; she says.Mbeneka is particularly interested in ensuring more lawyers are involved in EALS' activities. She also wants to see them practise in the East African Court of Justice, an international court tasked with resolving disputes involving the East African Community and its member states.On not winning a seat in the LSK earlier this year, Mbeneka says it was certainly disheartening but as part of what life has taught her, a loss today can be a win tomorrow.&ldquo;Though I lost the seat at LSK, I made a name for myself and my colleagues, whose votes I needed to get the position that I now hold. Many had either met or heard about me during the LSK campaigns,&rdquo; she says.The EALS usually draws a list of all vacancies to be filled and assigns various vacancies to specific countries. For instance, Kenya needed to fill the vice president, deputy secretary general and counsel seats.The Kenyan delegates, therefore, vote one of their own to fill each of the three seats. There were 174 Kenyan delegates during this particular election.&ldquo;From this experience, it is true that what appears to be a failure can be a stepping stone later. Just keep going,&rdquo; she advises.Mbeneka&rsquo;s other interests:Appointed to the Athletics Kenya Disciplinary Committee as secretary: 2014-dateVetting panel for Traffic Police, Nairobi region: October 2016-date