From a bar in Congo-Brazzaville comes the comedic story of an alcoholic, former teacher turned writer and a cast of curiously-named characters. Broken Glass (2009) by Alain Mabanckou could easily have become another miserable rant about the ills of Africa but the author has pulled off amusing tale in a most unlikely setting. 64-year old Broken Glass is an aspiring writer steeped in French literature. He lost his teaching job and his wife from because of his drinking habits and now spends his days imbibing red wine at Credit Gone West, a seedy local pub that has somehow survived the troubles of the country.One day, the bar own, called Stubborn Snail, hands him a notebook tells him to write about the tavern regulars because, the days when grandmothers reminisced from their deathbeds was gone now, this is the age of the written word. To humour him, Broken Glass puts pen to paper and somewhere along the way, discovers that he quite enjoys the project and that the comically tragic stories of the bar patrons provide good writing fodder. And even though everybody is trying to reinvent his messed-up story, Broken Glass interrogates his fellow drinkers unabashedly and is able to pull out lucid observations from their sad lives.There is The Printer who had a wonderful life with Paris until his son by another woman reappeared and had an affair with his French wife. Mouyeke, the wizard-cum-crook likes to take advantage of inebriated drinkers. Pampers Man was thrown out of the house by his wife and has been wearing adult diapers ever since serving a prison stint where he was frequently assaulted. Robinette is the bar s buxom, non-nonsense prostitute who can out drink any man and is known for urinating while standing up.From talking about the bar patrons, the story expands into the decaying town of Trois-Cents, the problems of the country and reflections on the eponymous narrator s own unhappy life. The key personalities deride politicians, rant about corruption, decry poverty and the general deterioration of morals where not even churches are spared of perversion.Broken Glass deliberates on his French literary favourites and his world travel through books. The character Holden Caulfield of Catcher in the Rye makes a cameo appearance to chinwag with the narrator and there are plenty of references to classical literature which might puzzle the average reader. And as Broken Glass brings his writings to a close he reminisces about his childhood and deceased mother.Mabanckou has put aside many rules of punctuation. Each chapter is one continuous, convoluted sentence with no full stops, just commas and extra spaces. Consequently, it might take a few chapters to disregard this peculiar writing style and settle into the book. There is a lot of information to take in which sometimes threatens to deluge the personal stories.But Mabanckou gives a perceptive analysis of African societies and the place of literature. A combination of outlandish characters, lewd humour, and elements of magical fantasy supply comic relief to an otherwise dreary tale.Mabanckou, 50, was born in the Republic of Congo and lectures on French literature in the USA. Broken Glass, which is translated from French, was shortlisted for the Man Booker Prize in 2015 and has been adapted for theatre.