The Lands ministry will form a taskforce to probe land leases in a cleanup likely to see hundreds of workers sent home for colluding with grabbers.The team will include land administration experts from universities, surveyors, planners and representatives of the Law Society of Kenya among other institutions. It will be tasked with carrying out investigations to establish who sanctioned and executed illegal renewal or review of land leases from 2010.Cabinet Secretary Jacob Kaimenyi said the team will primarily be driven by people from outside the ministry to ensure independence and efficiency and look into all the leases suspected to have been irregularly awarded or reviewed.&ldquo;If anyone of us, irrespective of their status, will be found to have irregularly or illegally done which they should not do with regard to issuance, renewal and extensions of leases, then we will take appropriate actions,&rdquo; Kaimenyi said.&ldquo;We have done preliminary investigations on the recent matters and we are going to take necessary actions and I am not threatening anyone&hellip;&hellip;this is what a rightful government must do.&rdquo;This investigations were done after a family was attcked and their home in Westlands demolished by goons hired by a private developer. The developer had forged documents it is suspected in collusion with Lands ministry officials.Kaimenyi said the task force will be in place by end of January and will be expected to give its report in six months. &ldquo;It is not enough to have a report. The biggest problem in this country is implementation of [recommendations] contained in various reports. We are going to implement the recommendations to b e made by the taskforce,&rdquo; the CS said.Kaimenyi spoke at the Department of Survey of Kenya during the opening of new offices at the department's headquarters in Ruaraka. He said the government has issued 2.4 million tittle deeds since 2013.Kaimenyi said the ministry will introduce biometric access control systems in its offices to lock out brokers and fraudsters. "There is no reason for people who are not members of staff to be there,&rdquo; he said.Kaimenyi said the system is important in controlling movement of staff inside the offices. &ldquo;The cards will be floor-specific. This means that if you want to use that card in another floor, it will not work,&rdquo; he said.All the staffers in the ministry will have identification cards, which will limit their access to documents exclusive to them, he said.