Members of the Public Accounts Committee of the National Assembly have accused Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen of threatening them in the ongoing NYS probe.Committee chairman Nicholas Gumbo said the senator has been sending "abusive and threatening messages" with a view to intimidate them. Speaking during a session in which the committee was receiving submissions from a firm associated with Murkomen, Gumbo told members the senator was abusing his privileges as a member of the August House to intimidate the committee. An associated of the Sing'oei, Murkomen and Sigei advocates appeared before the Gumbo team which Murkomen skipped.Read: Murkomen skips PAC's Sh1.8 billion NYS scam probe, associate takes MPs on wild goose chase"The SMS are coming in and they are so abusive. I have not responded to any of them. Murkomen is a member of this House who knows the procedures but he is abusing them," Gumbo said. The Rarieda MP spoke when Hillary Sigei, the managing partner of the law firm accused of receiving sh15 million from Out of the Box solutions at the centre of the Sh1.8billion NYS scam, appeared before the committee."It is possible he drafted this presentation by this young lawyer now taking the committee in verbal gymnastics and parachuting," Gumbo said. "The barrage of SMS I am receiving on my phone now from Murkomen are too many...perhaps he is watching this young lawyer to see how he is performing from somewhere," Gumbo said.Gumbo alleged that Murkomen has threatened committee vice chairman Jackson Rop for not defending him. "Your principal partner Murkomen has been fighting the vice chairman of this committee and accusing him of not doing enough to protect him in this committee," he said. Maara MP Kareke Mbiuki termed the law firm a " political outfit which has received a lot of money by benefiting from political connections"."The moment you speak the truth about the political lawyer the better than hanging around as a sycophant of a man jumping up and down," he said.In a press briefing at Marakwet, Murkomen asked the committee members to show Kenyans that they are not using the privileges of their position to influence the probe. "I have challenged Gumbo and the PAC team to give confidence to Kenyans that they are not raising campaign money through their privileged position as MPs," he said.