Your ideas matter. The fulfilment of your dream benefits others more than you know. In a strange way, we&rsquo;re all connected by ideas. That&rsquo;s why people&rsquo;s ideas provoke reactions by others &ndash; good or bad.Your ideas are part of a massive network of thoughts that feed off each other. Furthermore, your ideas matter because ideas birth ideas. Success stories prove that every great achiever encounters a predecessor&rsquo;s ideas that ushered them into a new world. For Dr Martin Luther King Jr, it was Mahatma Gandhi and for the American billionaire, Warren Buffet, it was Benjamin Graham &ndash; and so on. Each person found someone whose thoughts served as a &lsquo;midwife&rsquo; for their own. In the same vein, your idea sets the stage for other people&rsquo;s ideas to flourish.Also, your idea gives others the courage to dream and pursue their passion. Yes, dreams require courage &ndash; and courage is often difficult to muster. That&rsquo;s why most dreams don&rsquo;t occur. Often, people think up ideas, but few actually do them. When you do your idea, it automatically serves as courage-fuel for others. People think: &ldquo;If she can do it, I can as well.&rdquo; Doing your ideas inspires others.Birthing ideas demand that you fight to overcome obstacles. This makes the achiever special. They fought and won. Every time you win the battles in the process of birthing your dream, you create a record of how others can fight and win. You leave a trail that those coming behind can follow. You break through into new frontiers. Your fight encourages and strengthens the resolve of others to face their battles.The achiever shows you how realising a dream is done. So that Dr King didn&rsquo;t have to imagine how to go about a non-violent protest. Gandhi already left a blueprint. Inspiring people without clear action steps does little good. It&rsquo;s important to understand that your process, battles and wins are actual blueprints that will at some point help others succeed. Your idea isn&rsquo;t all about you.Your idea sets the stage for innovation. Others can always take it further. In sports, a record is set and with time, broken, then the new record is eventually broken &ndash; and so on. It means that each idea achieved stretches other people&rsquo;s imagination. It becomes the starting point, not the limit. People don&rsquo;t have to start afresh. You see, it&rsquo;s important that you do your ideas or birth your dreams. Beyond your happiness, people&rsquo;s lives, literally, depend on it.Twitter: @SamuelMpamugoBlog: theyouideology.com