Kisumu County Assembly has voted that the current speaker Ann Adul to step aside over integrity issues. Nominated MCA Jane Omollo tabled a motion to remove Adul claiming the Speaker lacked integrity.Omollo said in line with Section 62 (1) of the Anti-corruption and Education Crime Act, 2013 and chapter six of the Constitution on leadership and integrity, Adul could not continue serving as Speaker and chair of the County Assembly Service Board."I request this honourable house to resolve that Ann Adul step aside until her case is determined," Omollo said on Tuesday.This comes after the county clerk Philip Adundo wrote to Adul notifying her to cease being chairperson of CASB until her criminal appeal case is determined.The MCAs also accused Adul of demanding Sh14 million from the assembly in a memo written to the clerk.Adul claimed the money was for dues acquired during the time she was suspended.Read: I will reclaim my post as Kisumu speaker, says AdulAlso read: Suspended Kisumu speaker and five others cleared of corruption chargesIn the memo dated March 29 Adul wanted Sh1.7 million half salary, sitting allowance of Sh4.7 million, interest for court rates at 14 per cent per annum at Sh 2.3 million, and legal disbursement cost of Sh1.1 million.She also wanted CASB meetings allowance of Sh1.6 million, and Speaker office expenses of Sh2 million amongst other expenses. "She was even requesting for sitting allowance refund; where did she sit because as far as I'm concerned she is never in the assembly," Awasi rep Fanuel Aim said.Wawidhi MCA Moses Ochele, who seconded the motion, said the clerk should compute how many times the Speaker chaired sessions to warrant the allowance needed.He also said Adul has another case at the National Bank where she allegedly borrowed Sh20 million and has failed to repay. Central Nyakach MCA Elijah Omondi said the case is taking a toll on her, and she should be given time because it would save the office big time. &ldquo;Because of her case she even forgot to sign documents that enabled the contractors pay, so we should let her step side and the resolution effected immediately. Nominated MCA Aslam Khan said the August house is grinding into an halt if they cannot offer required services to the assembly. Khan said Adul has failed the leadership quality test and if they are not careful they will end up losing everything. "Adul is frustrating this assembly and the members and by her stepping aside, I think things will move smoothly, "he said. Kajulu MCA Simba Opepo said this is not the first time Adul has had issues with the members. Opepo when she tabled a report of PIC and PAC that vindicated her in a corruption case that was taken by the EACC she had a rough time with the Speaker. The motion was adapted and the house resolved that Adul should step aside pending determination of her court case. Deputy Speaker Pamela Omino directed that the clerk and the Sergeant-at-arms to enforce the above resolution. "It should be clear that nobody has suspended the speaker but she has been told to step aside until her case in court is determined," she said. Before the motion, the MCAs were locked from attending the sessions at the Kisumu county hall with directive from Adul forcing them to hold their sitting at the assembly premises which is undergoing renovation.