THE most interesting thing about this NYS scandal is the brutal fact that no government agency seems to be interested in investigating it. Efforts towards getting to the bottom of this scandal seem to have been frozen at very high levels of the government.The EACC is saying nothing, the DCI is not interested and it really doesn&rsquo;t look as if anybody out there is interested in this matter.And that is why the investigations being conducted by the Public Accounts Committee were the only hope for a public tired of this sustained charade. Now the allegations surrounding these parliamentary investigations in which it is being alleged that some members of the PAC are beneficiaries of this money are probably the last straw of a big lie that has been perpetuated for far too long.Of course, these allegations cast doubt on the PAC and the parliamentary process to get to the bottom of this mess. These allegations cast serious doubts on Parliament&rsquo;s ability, as the representative of the people, to help unravel the truth behind the mystery of the NYS scandal. But even before this, the PAC has given us unmistakable indications that it was not serious about this mission.It had been wavering long before the latest allegations came along. And this was clear when the committee made heavy weather of the small matter of summoning Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and Deputy President William&rsquo;s aide Farouk Kibet. It should be automatic for anyone mentioned adversely before the committee to be summoned: There are no two ways about this.The reality is stark: No state agency is interested in this NYS thing. Kenyans had the hope that the MPs would help the country at least know how this scandal was conceived and executed and ensure that action is taken against the perpetrators. That has not happened and Kenyans are in a big dilemma over this scandal. Part of this game is being played in a conspiracy that pits Parliament and the Executive. They must have agreed to open up the committee, invite people to come and wash their dirty linen in public and at the end there would be nothing. In fact, their scheme appeared to be to bring into the public sphere too much heat and no light. The aim was to confuse the public even more.