As Americans prepared to vote, US President Barack Obama expressed his frustration over the growing apathy among the black community in regards to Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton.In one of the calls he made to black radio hosts, Obama said, &ldquo;This is as important as 2008. As important as 2012. Let me tell you, if Donald Trump wins, everything we&rsquo;ve worked for is going to be reversed.&rdquo; It was clear that President Obama knew his supporters were not enthusiastic about Clinton&rsquo;s candidature as they were about his in 2008.In fact, he had faced similar apathy as he sought reelection in 2012, when a large number of his supporters were not sure if he deserved a second term. He had to work extra hard.Trump&rsquo;s win has been partly attributed to the low voter turnout in Democratic strongholds and creating an even more divided America. Americans are still skeptical about his presidency as they await his swearing in as the 45th President in January. Many are not sure that the gains made during Obama&rsquo;s 8-year administration will hold. All across Kenya&rsquo;s Central region, there seems to be voter apathy, whether real or perceived, among Jubilee supporters with most of them saying they will not wake up on Election Day.This is a very dangerous trend for Jubilee because the 2013 election was won because of the 90 per cent turnout in this region, and other President Uhuru Kenyatta strongholds.What seems to be shaping up is that a small shift in turnout will take Jubilee to a runoff, which can easily be decided by a minority. A runoff is not something that Uhuru should look forward to because it can easily turn him into a one-term President.Just like Obama, President Uhuru must rally his strongholds and remind all of his supporters that a win by the opposition, especially Cord leader Raila Odinga, can undo all the achievements made of the past four years. The President must personally take charge of his reelection campaign in Central Kenya by visiting each village in the Mt Kenya region to personally plead with them to come out in large numbers and vote. Already, the opposition, through Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, has revealed it will among other things, work on changing the Constitution to create positions for their own selfish gain.Raila recently made remarks that appear to mean he sees Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto as criminals, who deserve to be in jail. One wonders what he is capable of doing once he becomes President. Therefore, it is time that the Jubilee campaign team creates a strong narrative that will excite and mobilise its base. A clear-cut narrative, with a mix of achievements and politics will ensure Jubilee strongholds vote for Uhuru in 2017.It&rsquo;s only through the President&rsquo;s personal plea that Mt Kenya region voters will come out in large numbers to register as voters next month, and vote in August.We cannot afford to have a one-term presidency, not because the Jubilee government has not performed well, but because some of its supporters feel they have nothing to lose or gain with a second term for President Uhuru Kenyatta. The President must continue showing the country, and especially his supporters, the development he has initiated in the past four years. He must continue launching electricity connections, roads, medical equipment that has improved healthcare in the country and raise standards in education, both basic and tertiary. It is, however, not enough for the President to do this. Jubilee supporters must also wake up and realise that failure to vote is a vote for the opposition. If we, as Jubilee supporters, do not want the opposition to lead us next year, we must appreciate what the President has done for this country, stand by him and ensure we vote in large numbers in August 2017.