City Hall could soon transfer some of its prime property to a pension trust to offset a Sh48 billion debt it owes statutory bodies, suppliers and contractors. Finance executive Gregory Mwakanongo hinted to the Star that property swap is one of the options they are mulling over to clear the debt, &ldquo;which is fast growing to unmanageable levels&rdquo;.He said most of the debt was inherited from the now-defunct city council. Mwakanongo said the bulk of the accrued bills are unremitted statutory deductions, litigation fees, loans and other third party payments&ldquo;We are in talks with the bodies and specifically we are taking to Laptrust (Local Authorities Pension Trust) to have a property swap,&rdquo; he said. The executive said the county owes the Laptrust Sh9 billion, a figure that keeps growing every month due to &ldquo;punitive&rdquo; interest and penalties.&ldquo;Some of these bodies charge 1.5 to three per cent per month. This is very punitive and we are talking to them to waive this,&rdquo; Mwakanongo said.According to the County&rsquo;s Fiscal Strategy Paper for 2016-17 published in March, City Hall owed the Kenya Revenue Authority Sh2.5 billion as at December 31 last year. Mwakanongo said the county is paying KRA Sh200 million every month to offset the debt. The paper also showed that City Hall has not remitted Sh564 million to NSSF and Sh5.6 million to Local Authorities Pension Fund.This is not the first time the city county is attempting to transfer a property to a third party to offset a debt. In February 2013, a month before the city council was dissolved, it signed off a Sh2 billion estate to Lapfund in a property swap agreement to offset a debt. The council, investigations have shown, lost at least Sh500 million in the deal. The Mariakani estate sits on a 10 acre piece of land with 30 blocks of eight flats each for Sh1.4 billion, including the land valued at Sh1 billion.Former Town Clerk Roba Duba, who reportedly signed off the transfer of Mariakani estate, has denied authorising the deal. He says his signature was forged. City Hall continues to collect monthly rent from the tenants.Mwakanongo also accused the national government of failing to clear Sh64 billion it owes the county in parking fees and land rates. "We would not be owing other people Sh48 billion if the national government paid up. We have not been paid since 1999, despite us serving it with notices," he said.