Professionals from the Laikipia, Isiolo and Samburu counties have started a peace initiative to restore calm in the region. Peace Cop Kenya is part of the initiative. Laikipia county has been hit by a spate of insecurity in the recent past.On Saturday, the team held a peace meeting at Leparua in Ilng&rsquo;wesi location on the border of the three counties, aiming to unite the Maasai and Samburu communities.Co-chairmen Mark Lereruk and Godfrey Putunoi said the meetings will be taken to Isiolo and Samburu counties next year. President Uhuru Kenyatta is disturbed by the chaos in the area, which has led to several killings. Police officers have also been killed and scores injured.Addressing elders and youths, Lereruk said peace will only be brought about by the residents through dialogue, not fighting.&ldquo;In Northeastern, people of Somali origin armed themselves with illegal guns and fought Turkanas, Turkanas armed themselves and fought Samburus, Samburus are now fighting the Maasai. We must end this before it escalates to other regions,&rdquo; Lereruk said.He said the Somalis have stopped fighting. Lereruk said the culture of young men being used by politicans to steal livestock and cause mayhem must stop.Lereruk said the peace caravan, which seeks to unite the communities ahead of the general election, does not involve politicians, saying some of them are directly involved in the security problems being witnessed.Retired Ilng&rsquo;wesi chief and peace ambassador Simon Kinyaga said there is need to bring the two communities together. He said they have always coexisted peacefully.Simon Lenrop from the Westgate conservancy in Samburu county said a peace caravan held in the region brought together Borana, Somali, Turkana and Samburu.&ldquo;I&rsquo;m happy to be received well here by this community and I hope that these meetings will bear fruit. We are Kenyans and we should embrace peace and unity,&rdquo; he said.In the recent past, there have been cases of invasion of private land, cattle theft and attacks in various parts in Laikipia county. Leaders have urged the national government to evict migrant herders and confiscate illegal guns.