The government has succeeded in selling to Kenyans the narrative that the cause of the Karai inferno in Naivasha was a speeding Ugandan registered Canter truck that hit an unmarked speed bump, overturned and its flammable contents burst into flames killing 40 people. At least 12 vehicles were burnt.The mention of the Ugandan registered van is a nice way of shifting the blame. We&rsquo;re not supposed to see the evidence of culpability amidst this blame game. There is also another twist about the unmarked speed bump because, apparently, it was erected at the request of residents to reduce the number of accidents on the stretch.But no one asked basic questions. For instance, who is responsible for transport safety in Kenya, and who erected that unmarked speed bump? Who clears transportation of flammable cargo? Who determines speed limits and enforces them? Only two people asked the right questions in the aftermath of the tragedy. President Uhuru Kenyatta couldn&rsquo;t resist afterthought crocodile tears in his Jamhuri Day campaign speech when he nearly tore into the National Transport and Safety Authority for putting up the unmarked bumps. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi had a different take altogether: The tragedy was a result of lack of coordination by road safety enforcement agencies. Well, I think both were right and wrong. Right because they dared and apportioned blame but wrong because they barely scratched the surface of our systems. This tragedy was caused by agencies that have absconded their mandates and instead, choose to compete for corruption proceeds. The Kenya National Highways Authority is in charge of building highways and maintaining them. I don&rsquo;t know whether they are responsible for the Karai section and the like, and putting up such absurd speed limits. All I know is that I am slowed down when I am supposed to speed and vice versa. But, either way, I always end up in a police cell. There was a time when Traffic police waylaid motorists and ransomed them on fake speeding, worn-out tyre, cracked mirror or smelly breath accusations. If you thought parting with some few thousands of shillings was too much, you often found yourself with rolls of bang that you didn&rsquo;t know anything about. They were at liberty to decide life and death on the roads. What&rsquo;s the work of Traffic police, given the existence of the NTSA? Assuming the name mirrors its mandate, you would expect it to police road, rail, water and air transport systems. It must have the capability to enforce rules even in the stratosphere. But I&rsquo;ve never seen an ambulance marked NTSA among its fancy coloured fleet of vehicles. Forget anything about a chopper. The NTSA smart branding masks clandestine running after drunk drivers at night, and taking over from the police by mounting illegal roadblocks, and secretly recording motorists&rsquo; speed while hiding in the bush. Police aren&rsquo;t supposed to complain or mount industrial action against usurpation of their duties. On a good day regular police, their traffic counterparts and the NTSA mount what in war zones would be joint patrols on no man&rsquo;s land. Woe unto you if you have caused a minor infraction. A bribe is demanded against extremely unrealistic punitive traffic laws. My thoughts are that we don&rsquo;t need an extortionist formation such as the NTSA. Their vaunted duties are nothing but excuse to extort from the public. It&rsquo;s enough that we have Traffic police to deal with.Yet it would be hideous to absolve Kenha of connivance in this matter. The traffic snarl-ups by full of oil tankers and chemicals carrying trucks between Naivasha and the turnoff to Kisumu is due to unregulated diversions under its supervision.