PRESIDENT Uhuru Kenyatta has panicked. And, as in the case of the &lsquo;Madimoni&rsquo; moment, he now sees the hidden hand of external forces&rsquo; interference.Addressing the nation during the 52nd Jamhuri Day at Nyayo Stadium, Nairobi, on Monday, the President claimed external powers are seeking to influence next year&rsquo;s presidential election results. He alleged some global powers, which he did not name, are bankrolling regime change in this country, &ldquo;in the guise of supporting good governance or civic education&rdquo;.He also moved the coordination of the NGO sector from the Devolution ministry to the Interior ministry. It is not the first time these claims are being made. In February 2014, the then National Security Advisory Committee chairman Francis Kimemia alleged USAID was using activists to destabilise the government. This followed anti-corruption protests targeting MPs.During the anti-IEBC demos this year, government spokesperson Eric Kiraithe said some neighbouring countries were supporting some political activities aimed at &ldquo;creating instability, insecurity, lawlessness and strife in Kenya&rdquo;. He did not elaborate.This is not surprising. This is how insecure regimes behave. Alan Rake in his research paper &ldquo;Recent History&rdquo;, published in 2003 in the journal Africa South of the Sahara, notes that the Kanu leadership called advocates of multi-party democracy in the 1990s &ldquo;tribalists&rdquo; in the pay of &ldquo;foreign masters&rdquo; seeking to undermine national unity.President Daniel Moi accused the US of interfering in domestic politics after some of the dissidents were granted refuge in its embassy in Nairobi.Celebrating his 83rd birthday in February 2007, Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe accused his main opposition rival of trying to oust him with British help. &ldquo;Morgan Tsvangirai and his MDC, those puppets of the British, are trying to organise to remove us from power, and fulfill an agenda given to them by the British,&rdquo; he said. In July this year, he accused some embassies of working with a section of Zanu-PF members to effect regime change in the country. &ldquo;Foreign embassies are interfering with our politics ... and although they are doing it privately, clandestinely, I want to warn them to desist from it.&rdquo; Mugabe said.Uhuru&rsquo;s words echo Mugabe&rsquo;s.This is not limited to Africa. Following an attempted coup in August, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan blamed &lsquo;foreign powers&rsquo; and said the West is supporting terrorism. At least he named Germany and the US.President Uhuru has everything to worry about because his remarks come against a background of surprising developments in democracy across Africa. US President Barack Obama, the man who told off Kenya&rsquo;s opposition and defended Uhuru, is leaving office. Malawi&rsquo;s Joyce Banda lost to President Peter Mutharika in 2014, Nigeria&rsquo;s Goodluck Jonathan lost to Muhammadu Buhari in 2015 and, recently, Ghana&rsquo;s John Dramani Mahama lost to Nana Akufo-Addo. They were all one-term Presidents.Regardless of The Gambia&rsquo;s leader Yahya Jammeh&rsquo;s change of mind about stepping down after defeat the fact that he lost and conceded to a little known Adamu Barrow says a lot about the shift in democratic dynamics in Africa. Jammeh has been in power for the last 22 years. The reason behind these developments is key: Corruption. Against the backdrop of the biggest graft scandal in Malawi &mdash; the $32 million heist &mdash; President Mutharika campaigned on a no sacred cows or untouchables basis in his zero tolerance for corruption campaign agenda. Banda lost. Buhari made the war on corruption one of his cardinal programmes along with security and the economy. Jonathan lost.Despite the infrastructural projects President Mahama initiated, dwindling economic growth in the resource-rich country, and his inability to rein in corrupt officials cost him his second term &mdash; according to Ghana&rsquo;s Premium Times. Akufo-Addo, a former foreign minister, made the country&rsquo;s worsening corruption the focus of his campaign. Uhuru has heard about this.Equally, the opposition in the country has centred its campaigns on rampant grand corruption in the government as Uhuru seeks his second term. The Jubilee administration itself has had its share of graft scandals.This informs the insecurity in President Uhuru.