The 2017 elections are less than a year away. However, the environment leading up to those elections are both contested and in a flux. The genesis of the current state is traceable to the 2013 general elections and the nature of elections in Kenya over the recent years. A yet-to-be-released analysis of the highly combustible and contested patch of Kenyan political real estate called elections provides rich material on why Kenya is inexorably hurtling almost rudderless towards another high-stakes electoral contest. This quick study by two leading Kenyan scholars (let s call them the Brightsparks) confirms not just what is manifestly clear, even to the uninitiated, about Kenya s complete unpreparedness for the 2017 general elections. It, in addition, provides rich material as to why this is so and what this could mean. The Brightsparks for instance illuminate:[T]he 2013 elections though peaceful did not result in closure. Consequently, the current electoral cycle has over-focused on the challenges around those elections, the manner in which they were conducted and their credibility. This has distracted from adequate and objective preparations and engagement around the 2017 elections.I agree. Could it not be that we have again been set up because as scholars Patrick Chabal and Jean-Pascal Daloz argue, disorder is a political instrument? Look at the symptoms. First, there are huge legitimacy questions affecting the Independent Elections and Boundaries Commission (IEBC). Second, the legal and institutional support infrastructure for elections is dangerously infirm to support the democratic imperative. Third, the political environment in which the elections will be held is fractious, unhealthy and unstable. Fourth, Kenya continues to labor under the accountability challenges of the past; especially since the 2007 elections. Fifth, there is no clear post 2017 elections democratic agenda, of which free, fair, inclusive, credible and peaceful elections would be a significant piece. Let us briefly examine each. Questions on IEBC s legitimacy run much deeper that the credibility issues against the soon-to-be-replaced elections commissioners. The credibility of the secretariat is in question and calls for their public vetting have become stridently louder. Moreover, IEBC s internal systems and processes notably procurement, the registration of voters, the voter register(s), technology, results management and transmission and the hiring of election officials are all under heightened scrutiny. Second, there is increased concern that the legal and institutional support infrastructure of and around elections is fragile and infirm; incapable of facilitating and guaranteeing a free, fair, credible and peaceful election in 2017. The security sector, for instance, is clearly unwilling and unable to engage in democratic policing; rather, it has reverted lock, stock and barrel to serve as a praetorian guard of the incumbent. As the Brightsparks note:[T]he persisting challenge around security and security agencies in Kenya is that their independence and impartiality in the electoral process is not guaranteed. Ever since the days of the Public Order Act, the emphasis of the security agencies has been on maintaining law and order. This has been interpreted mostly as securing the state and the elite within the state .both the government and police have been slow at reforming. Repeated incidences of police brutality or examples of police seeking to disrupt lawful political rallies in complete disregard of the constitution suggest the police are yet to fully embrace the [constitutional] reform process. The partiality of security agencies is therefore a key concern that hounds the forthcoming elections. We need to take deliberate steps to transform the police into an independent and professional service that will keep its impartiality during elections.On this score too, we find questions being asked of the firmness of the laws related to or affecting elections. Moreover, the role of, among others, the judiciary, political parties, the media, civil and faith based society, the private sector and donors is still far from certain. The verdict is that while some have evolved to be indifferent or outright disinterested, others are too debilitated, partisan or even incompetent to understand and positively exercise around the concept of democratic elections. Third, the overarching political environment in the run up to the elections remains stifled, unhygienic, toxic, poisonously polarized and continuously closing. There continues to be official repression and attacks on alternative voices. Just this week, the media reported a direct and brazen threat by a government official, Jasper Mbiuki, to civil society luminary Gladwell Otieno during the recent meeting of the International Criminal Court Assembly of State Parties. Mbiuki, predictably, has denied making the threat but witnesses are clear that the threat was made and have even proffered digitally-recorded evidence. The entry of State House official Dennis Itumbi in support of Mbiuki has caused further pollution: for Itumbi, Gladwell Otieno deserves such treatment since she belongs to evil society; largely due to her constant questioning of the leadership credentials of especially President Uhuru Kenyatta. In short, damn the constitution; alternative opinions will not be countenanced. Similarly intolerance has been seen in counties where every gubernatorial election now promises to be violent. The role of the public service and the misuse or abuse of both public resources and illegally acquired wealth, in addition, promise to be prominent features of the forthcoming elections. A fourth concern is how questions around the lack of accountability continue to bleed into and beleaguer elections in Kenya. Chapter 6 of the Constitution which deals with Leadership and Integrity is essentially non-operative; the political class has connived to consign it to cold storage. Any abuses and violations, however grave, brazen and egregious that may occur during elections do not seem to prick or scar anyone s conscience anymore.Fifth, there has been no framing and articulation of a post-2017 election agenda to reform the areas that undermine democratic elections, among others. The essential question here would be how to reframe elections to be a piece that protects and promotes democracy rather than one that undermines or reverses it; often to consequences of perilous conflict.So, any hope looking ahead? Of course, there is hope. We, after all, are Kenyans; we continue to eternally rely on the hope of prayer. Ngure wa Gachanja is a human rights and democratic governance practitioner. The views expressed in this column are entirely his own and in no way represent or articulate those of any organizations he may be associated with.