The year has come to a close and everybody is apprehensive as this is the elections year. As Kenyans make merry and celebrate the incoming of 2017, people have many hopes and dreams about their personal lives and as a country collectively. Political and religious leaders are giving messages of hope arguing Kenyans to pray for peace. I am not superstitious neither am I a mystic but the year 2017 to me holds a myriad of gloom and hopelessness, and this is why.As the year begins, we should expect more hate speeches from politicians, acrimony and insults as the populace is incited against each other. Already the opposition has declared that from January 4, they will hold demonstrations to challenge the disputed electoral laws. My predictions are that, due to such political actions, the country will be divided further than it is now. The opposition will argue for Kenyans to gang up against one tribe, the Agikuyu, who are going to labelled most tribalistic, economic saboteurs, looters etc. However, these protests, will not end peaceful as expected and the government will not be moved an inch forcing the opposition to finally seek an alternative channel to end the stalemate.After various political parties have held their nominations, there will be a serious fallout in the major political parties, to the benefit of the smaller parties like that will be waiting on the wings like vultures.The much- hyped NASA coalition will no longer hold together until the elections. It will collapse like a pack of cards. I predict this because the Musalia Mudavadi-led initiative, will not be supported by the rest of the opposition chiefs, because Ford- K leader Moses Wetangula believes it&rsquo;s his time the rest of opposition leaders to support him to be the flag-bearer, while Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka has time and again pleaded with the rest to give him the chance while ODM chief, Raila Odinga believes that if it&rsquo;s not him then it&rsquo;s none. In the meantime, although the campaigning period is not yet officially announced, but both sides Jubilee and opposition will continue traversing the country to convince the people that they&rsquo;re the best to rule this country in premature campaigns. Of course, Jubilee party will dismiss the opposition as it has always done that they lack development record while Jubilee leaders will continue telling the populace that they have a development agenda for the country. They will sing about their development track record for all and sundry.The opposition will continue crying foul that the ruling Jubilee party is planning to rig the coming elections but despite their threats of boycotting the polls, they will participate. The opposition will be going to the polls believing that it&rsquo;s their turn to rule. Unfortunately, they will not get the 50+1 margin therefore they will contest the results in court claiming that the winning side has stolen the elections. There will be bloody protests mainly in Nairobi, Mombasa, Kisumu, Eldoret and Nakuru. There will be more deaths than in 2007/08 and the internally displaced people &ndash;IDPs- will come back in make-shift camps. This is because most people are now prepared to face the enemies. This acrimony and chaos, will force the government to declare a state of emergence, a curfew that would be used to contain the wave of increasing bloody protests and deaths.The winner, the incumbent Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto, better known by the acronym Uhuruto, will be sworn in amid cries of rigging from the opposition and foreign electoral observers saying the elections were not free and fair . Why am I saying the incumbent will win this election is because it has been hard to remove an incumbent African president save for a situation witnessed in Gambia and Ghana.My predictions are that the country will be more polarized and tribal animosity will be at all time high. Unfortunately there will be Koffi Anan or Jakaya Kikwete to save us the way they did in 2008. The international image Kenya has tried to build in the past one or so years will be eroded and the country will loose its credibility.As we go into 2017, the National Youth Service - NYS - scandal will fade into oblivion because even some of the politicians who are condemning the scandal, have in one way or the other benefited from the 1.8 billion money, if the parliamentary committee sessions trying to investigate the matter last year were anything to go by. We witnessed dirty linen being displayed in public.I am not a doomsayer, but even journalists in this country will openly show their biases towards certain political parties, in their editorials, commentaries, news angles and the way they run the affairs of their businesses. My prediction is that after this election on August 8, the country will never be the same again.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------The Writer is Broadcast-Journalist in Nairobi.