ENTERING 2017, the ruling Jubilee Party could well have more problems than those on the massed Opposition Coalition for Reforms and Democracy and National Super Alliance&rsquo;s list.Top on the JP list is the fact of the spectre that in 2017, Kikuyu-Kalenjin power will be marking its 50th anniversary with a projection of 15 more years in exclusive Presidential power. It was in 1967 that Daniel Toroitich arap Moi ascended to the vice-presidency after Jaramogi Oginga Odinga (Luo, 1964-66) and Joseph Murumbi (Maasai, May to December 1966). Few establishments have beccome more entrenched than the Kikuyu-Kalenjin grip on State House. But with an anti- establishment rage sweeping across the world, how does JP propose to cleverly navigate a minefield in which they intend to exclusively hold the ball all the way to 2032? The recent collapse of a small section of the standard gauge railway retaining wall in Makueni county exposes the Jubilee administration&rsquo;s ultimate dilemma. Even at its apparently strongest, towards the final year of a first term, it is increasingly becoming vulnerable. The Opposition is circling overhead for the kill, which many diverse analysts agree will only come from a fatal blow at Jubilee&rsquo;s core &ndash; the Rift Valley and Mt Kenya strongholds. If I were to speak truth to power to Jubilee I would tell the ruling party that things aren&rsquo;t exactly rosy in its heartlands. The post-Jubilee Party launch and the initial depression that it handed the Opposition in the last quarter of the year have not produced the exultant scenario the strategists had assumed would happen. The near-euphoric domination the party launch had built up has been washed away by body blow after body blow from Cord and ODM supremo Raila Odinga&rsquo;s resurgent anti-corruption populism. Even worse, a palpable vacuum in strategic thought on what was to come after the Kasarani jamboree has left the ruling party in internal turmoil and without a clear way forward. Jubilee simply can&rsquo;t afford a Christmas break this year if they are to rise to the task in January of the challenge of achieving and retaining the dominant narrative in a General Election year. RAILA WILL AIM AT A FLYING START IN 2017 Raila will start the year with his &ldquo;State of the Nation&rdquo; address that, in all likelihood, his campaign war room and think tanks, which have already shown their teeth and bite, are already working on &ndash; and its messaging could be potentially explosive. It will be a continuation of the muddying of the development record waters to ensure JP cannot present it to anyone in 2017 without being seen as malicious. Remember the murderous Murang&rsquo;a and Tana Delta &ldquo;desertification in five years allegations&rdquo;? They were designed to effectively deny Jubilee a track record. How Jubilee starts the year and carries on will be critically important.There is also the dilemma of Jubilee&rsquo;s default strategy. Being a reelection and having the experience of the 2007 Kibaki reelection bid and aftermath still fresh in mind, JP has gone into default mode and is now largely campaigning in the message and form of &ldquo;business as usual&rdquo;. It is projecting a perpetuation of itself through the ideology of such tactless slogans as &ldquo;Kazi Iendelee&rdquo; or &ldquo;Jubilee Tena&rdquo;. Even if these aren&rsquo;t the working slogans, it seems they are the functional default strategy. The naming of incumbent politicians who will themselves be seeking reelection to head the campaigns in the regions points to this line of thought that proved so near-disastrous for Kibaki in 2007. ICC VANQUISHED, BUT NO STRATEGY IN SIGHTThe vanquishing of the ICC by UhuRuto has left the President and his deputy free, but without a solid campaign issue such as the one that guaranteed them power in 2013. It is commonly agreed that 2013 was a referendum on the ICC, which The Hague-based institution, its imperial backers and their local surrogates lost. Twenty-seventeen on the other hand will be a referendum on the two, where their victory against the ICC will count for nothing. They must bring a new deal to the table, while convincing the country that the old one, muddied as it will be, was honoured to the letter. A LACK OF POWERFUL AND CREDIBLE POWER MERCHANTSAs the campaigns approach, the abscence of solid individuals that Jubilee can rely on to stump for it is becoming evident as all work and no pleasure fall on the two principals. They have had to be the ones who personally attend to politics, having no credible surrogates. The decision to enforce zero politics on Cabinet Secretaries in 2013 emasculated an out-and-out political power asset. The gag order on politics for Cabinet, four years later regrettably extended to MPs and senators, has left very few power merchants who can trade for the presidency, one of them the unrelenting Leader of Majority Aden Duale. Jubilee politics has only had the three &ndash; Uhuru, Ruto and Duale &ndash; doing politics, leaving a huge vacuum in the middle between its leadership and support base. The talk of voter apathy really is the lack of connection between the two that ought to have been filled by powerful and credible power merchants.The Cabinet has always served as a platform from which new money, power and political elites emerge who later join in defence of and offence by the incumbents from a policy and regional perspective. Even at home, Jubilee&rsquo;s new money and power remain yet to be felt and reinforce the perspective that the ruling party has yet to deliver. There isn&rsquo;t a demonstrable Jubilee Mafia, so to speak, an indictment of their realpolitik. The Cabinet represents very little political value and no regional balancing, and will be unavailable for politics in 2017. Trying to figure out which CS is whose body man is common bar talk. It is a shy political office, with little if any confidence and not demonstrably superior to a political one, with almost zero political skills whose composition will be used to extend the exclusivity argument.Raila understands this and has been actively pushing this idea to paint Jubilee not as a regional exclusivity, but one where power and access are limited to degrees of consanguinity. The idea of an exclusive reach by the nearest and dearest to power has already been planted. The point is to create resentment within the Jubilee strongholds because it is meant to insinuate a notion of alienation between the principals and their strongholds. The projection of national development programmes as having ulterior personal motives like the Murang&rsquo;a Water Collector Tunnel affair cuts to the heart of the region, leaving the people bleeding bitterness and disaffection.The ground indeed is rife with such whispers, for such things cannot be publicly spoken about. In Mt Kenya, for example, the diffusion of political middlemen from the centre to the periphery (the counties) has largely been explained through the lack of opportunity at the centre, where few new political fortunes are to be made. Limited access has meant limited opportunity and information, something evident in the perception that the centre is restricted to old networks linked through impenetrable bonds of consanguinity.The end to all these fallacies if they are left to make the rounds throughout the world without a definite challenge by the alternative is that the Jubilee campaign will first have to start with appeasement at home, wasting valuable campaign time and resources. The Opposition will be sitting pretty at home with a base solidly behind them throwing all manner of harmful blows that will require extensive damage control at home for Jubilee. KIBAKI MT KENYA BACKYARD WAS NEVER HESITANT Despite all his challenges in 2007, Kibaki&rsquo;s Mt Kenya backyard never felt hesitant and needed no pacification whatsoever, since he had established his leadership and dominance, thanks largely to the then Mt Kenya Mafia and the huge swell of political middlemen that had become its chief outreach at home. The complete disappearance of powerful Meru people at the top, save for Kiraitu Murungi, for example, has been difficult to defend in the Mountain backyard.BREAKING DOWN THE UHURUTO BRAND The Jubilee brand has also suffered some stress &ndash; particularly through the individual brands of its two leaders. While the Kenyatta brand remains powerful, bankable and investable, the Uhuru brand has lagged behind. Uhuru is often referred to as &ldquo;Kamwana&rdquo; (The Lad) by sections of the population in his backyard (Mzee Jomo Kenyatta was aged 71 the year of Uhuru&rsquo;s birth). Once a term of endearment and recognition of his heritage and the youthful vigour with which he stormed national politics in 2001, the President has outgrown it, but its usage is still common. The ridiculous bit is that even much younger people than he use it, meaning there has been stagnation in the Uhuru brand for a while and its minders have not been up to the task. It is increasingly becoming an item of jest and could easily become depreciatory if not, in fact, derogatory. Another term, Muthamaki (the King), is gaining currency in relation to Uhuru. Its satirical urban use as a pun is growing and variations of its negative use pop up daily.It is the Ruto brand, however, that has the biggest image problem. Ruto has never been in charge of his own brand. His most effective effort was the &ldquo;Hustler&rdquo; brand, smart and on point, but which he now may have to abandon as his detractors work hard to construe arrested development, given his many too many image problems. The word &lsquo;hustler&rsquo; is a Black America nom de guerre, proudly used of people who often work through systemic difficulty and setbacks to make it in life. It came to us through hip pop, the soundtrack to Black America&rsquo;s struggle, and adopted to mean just about the same thing. When Ruto picked &lsquo;hustler&rsquo; up, he validated millions of young people since they had identified with it and increasingly identified with him. This connection made for lots of powerful enemies in the two groups that Ruto sidestepped to power, the successors to the crown he stole and the urban class he never minded to endear. And then, finally, there is Raphael Tuju, known as Raju to friend and foe alike. The introduction of Tuju to the JP game of thrones at such a high level, the de facto Jubilee campaign manager, brought with it a freshness of thought and an opportunity for a break from many of the party&rsquo;s inherent problems. In essence, Tuju is now Number 3. But the dragging of feet around Raju&rsquo;s unveiling and operationalization continues the script that power in JP resides elsewhere. Talk of other power centres has also emerged. Tuju must have &ndash; and be seen to have &ndash; power, authority and the money to effectively run both a campaign of appeasement and war. His name, role, ability and promise must be made to count for Jubilee to come out with the maximum force and charm required. Having thus spoken truth to JP power, I rest my case. (+) DP IMAGE, BRAND NEED A MOUNTAIN-LOAD OF WORKWilliam Ruto&rsquo;s rise to power has been contemptuous of the petty middle class consensus. A rise to the top should be about networks and access stimulated with gallons of coffee at chic urban eateries and the attendant social protocols. In this group, there is an unspoken understanding that upward mobility is dreary and all pretensions that can make it bearable are welcome. But for Ruto it is as if it was the power, not coffee, that came instant. It is as if Ruto came directly from being a country bumpkin selling chickens by the roadside to a prince, making utter nonsense of the rat race and its sacred rules of engagement &ndash; a slap on the face of the coffee house class that demands obsequiousness to these rules. It is his meteoric rise while remaining quintessentially rustic with a preference for the rural rather than urbane and pretentious that has left him alienated from the people in the naming business. The hunger and thirst for power perceptible in him contrast greatly with the laissez faire attitude of those who stake power as right by birth. It is this sheer opposed ability on his part that the defining elites hold in repugnance. Ruto&rsquo;s power has not come from name or money but from raw ambition, brute force, an indefatigable work ethic, steel and strategic positioning for the only 5am-1am, 25-hour-day politician known today.