The PNU leadership met yesterday to discuss the viability of giving Kenya&rsquo;s High Commissioner to Tanzania Chirau Mwakwere a direct ticket for Kwale governor.Party leader and Meru Governor Peter Munya chaired the discussion. National vice chairman Juma Ngao said leaders also discussed strategies to win other Coast governor seats.He said leaders resolved to campaign for Mwakwere as they search for candidates for other seats.&ldquo;Others aspirants will be considered for positions should our plans flop,&rdquo; Ngao told the Star on the phone yesterday.He said Mwakwere is being given priority because he is one of the founding members of PNU and &ldquo;he will not be guaranteed a ticket in ODM&rdquo; to replace Salim Mvurya who moved to the Jubilee Party.Mwakwere is yet to officially announce whether he has moved to ODM from Jubilee. However, indications are that the former Transport minister is moving away from the Jubilee side. Mwakwere was once a PNU member. Mvurya ditched ODM, saying he had no future in the party.Ngao said direct tickets will be issued to governor hopefuls.&ldquo;There will be no primaries. Our rivals will bankroll other weak candidates,&rdquo;he said.Ngao denied issuing direct tickets is undemocratic.He said there will be power play, especially in Mombasa, a county he described as the economic heart of Kenya.Ngao said the county needs a vibrant visionary. He said Governor Hassan Joho has &ldquo;failed miserably&rdquo;, adding that resources are being &lsquo;assembled&rsquo; to dethrone him.Ngao said candidates for all seats except the presidency will be unveiled in January or February. So serious are PNU&rsquo;s intentions to win in the Coast that they have started opening offices in Mombasa, Kwale and Kilifi counties.&ldquo;Lamu, Taita Taveta and Tana River county offices will be opened by February,&rdquo; Ngao said. Mombasa will be PNU&rsquo;s nerve centre at the Coast.Four out of the six governors at the Coast won their seats on the ODM ticket.&ldquo;PNU must command the Coast region because it is former leader and President Mwai Kibaki&rsquo;s party. The Dongo Kundu By-pass, Lapsset and other projects are his initiatives,&rdquo; Ngao said.PNU was founded in September 2007 as a coalition of parties. Former President Mwai Kibaki sough reelection on the party&rsquo;s ticket.