A United Arab Emirates-based food processing firm plans to provide special tomato seeds for proposed tomato paste plant in Kilifi county through a joint venture with a local firm. Delta Food Industries says it will start growing the tomatoes in March next year as part of its Sh1.63 billion ($16 million) investment in partnership with Milly Fruit Processors &ndash; known for Picana range of juices. The UAE firm plans to grow tomatoes on pilot basis for two years to inform the design of the planned processing plant. Delta Food Industries director Shiraz Osman said the food processing plant will target to crash about 500 tonnes of tomatoes daily. &ldquo;Farmers in Kilifi will no longer need to export to UAE where most do not get the real value for their produce because we will buy their produce from within and at competitive prices,&rdquo; Osman said. Osman on Monday held strategy talks with the directors of Mtwapa-based Milly Fruit Processor led by director Mohamed Rashid. Rashid said the tomatoes will be grown on an initial 100 acres of their 10,000-acre farm in Magarini constituency. &ldquo;We conducted a six-month trial project using the technology and expertise that Shiraz brings and it worked perfectly. We have great potential in Kilifi,&rdquo; he said. A section of farmers in Kilifi have been complaining about being underpaid on &ldquo;flimsy excuses&rdquo; for their fresh produce. &ldquo;Sometimes you agree on a specific price but once they get the delivery, they give you all manner of reasons like damages to the produce, late arrival just to bring down the price,&rdquo; said Samson Charo, a pineapple farmer in Magarini. Studies show Kenya produces at most 20,000 metric tonnes of fresh tomatoes per hectare compared to China and Iran, who produce about 70,000 metric tonnes per hectare. Delta Food Industries said it produces about 15,000 to 20,000 metric tonnes of concentrates a year against a demand of 70,000 to 80,000 per year in the UAE. The firm ships 250 containers of tomato-based products a month. &ldquo;This means there is still a great market out there and we will not be able to get enough tomatoes from Kilifi alone even if we increase the acreage on which to grow tomatoes. We will need to buy from other parts of the country too,&rdquo; Shiraz said. This means tomato farmers in Kenya will have a ready market for their produce.