"It is better to have tried and failed than to have never tried at all." Is there was a more overused phrase than this one? Not only is the saying unoriginal in its use, it has the ring about it of being... I won&rsquo;t say, a lie but I will say untruth. To illustrate my point with a few examples on trying and failing when it should have never been tried at all, I give you Pepsi AM; Pepsi&rsquo;s idea to introduce extra-caffeinated Cola for breakfast, which was based on the assumption that since the fizzy drink had caffeine, why not imagine it could replace coffee in the morning? Strangely, soda for breakfast didn&rsquo;t catch on and the product was discontinued within a year. Next, Frito-Lay&rsquo;s Wow potato chips, fat-free potato chips thanks to a compound known as Olestra in the ingredients. The molecules of this compound, however, were too big to digest and they would go right through the digestive tract, causing abdominal cramps and loose stool. This just so happens to be the same effect laxative has. Colgate&rsquo;s line of frozen foods back in the 1980s was yet another epic fail. Heavily promoted and hoping to capture the growing ready-to-eat market, what then happened was people would go to the frozen foods section, see the big Colgate logo on the food boxes, associate the food with the taste of toothpaste and be put off. And then there&rsquo;s Four Loko, a drink that combined alcohol and caffeine. Some drinkers wound up in hospital. Suffice to say, the drink was banned in several states in the US, something to do with health and safety. Closer to home, in our own personal lives, I&rsquo;m sure we will come across this saying again, and this time, we&rsquo;ll be tempted to try something, perhaps a start-up. My advice is don&rsquo;t, as 90 per cent of start-ups fail, and even though the "it&rsquo;s better to have tried..." saying sounds motivating, it&rsquo;s not a one-size-fits-all phrase. Failure, after all, is frustrating and depressing. It makes most people feel miserable. So the question you should ask yourself is this: what type of misery person are you?You see, there are two types of people. Those who prefer the tried-and-tested path, with its tarmac, lit streets and the security and certainty that comes with it. And then there are those who gravitate towards the untrodden path with its thorny bushes and poisonous critters. Strewn across this path is failure after failure, and it is for the untrodden path person that the clich&eacute;d phrase is meant for. For him, misery is to do the ordinary. But for the tried-and-tested- path person, to do and repeatedly fail is the misery. Know yourself to know your path. And as Master Yoda of Star Wars put it, "Do or do not, there&rsquo;s no try."