Every artist puts a bit of themselves into a painting, so it has been said. This was no different with Ruth Nyakundi, whose exhibiton was held at the Intercontinental Hotel last Wednesday.Nyakundi is no stranger to the art scene, having held over 20 exhibitions since the 1990 when she started out. Not only has she dabbled in oil on canvas, mixed media, watercolor on board, but also in acrylic on canvas, as seen in her recent works.This exhibition bears inspiration from Nyakundi's life as seen in the painting Pages of Life."This painting is about my life, just like every other painting in this exhibition," Ruth says, "I have gone through ups and downs to get here where I am. But all through that, I have been true to myself."As an artist, Ruth believes that one has to be true to themselves so that they can create art works that are authentic and truthful."It is why I create art of balance, art that people can feel and where I can show the harmony of art," she adds.The aspect of harmony is what makes her select the colours for her painting. In this exhibition, she opts for gold, red, yellow and black to give a rich yet appealing visual aesthetic.In Warriors of Peace, she drew her inspiration from women in Maasai Mara where she had gone for a game drive."These are warriors of peace in their daily lives- taking care of people, and advising them," she says, adding that these little things are what create harmony.Away from the portraits, Ruth showcased two abstract paintings: Cosmic World I and II. In Cosmic World I, she captures the eternity of the world in the sense that one can go round and round but can never get to the end. This is shown with the spiral motions she uses on the image.&ldquo;Cosmic World II is about the world we live in and how it was created different. While there are ups, one has to feel good about the world because God created you free to enjoy and live,&rdquo; she says.The sense of freedom is also visible in Cultural Catwalk, a celebration of the Maasai women heading to a cultural event. In this painting, Ruth opts to use thick outlines on the silhouettes to create an illusion of etching, with the gold background complementing the depth.In her process, she starts with priming her canvas and treats it three times before paints. And depending with the work, she keeps on working on it until she 'feels' the painting, otherwise it is incomplete.