It almost goes without saying that the political parties are the biggest clients of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. It is also true the parties are the main stakeholders in the general election. They not only participate in elections, they are the representatives of the people of Kenya.Thus, the appointment of IEBC commissioners, in essence election referees, is an issue of deepest concern to the political parties. It is only logical that they should be involved in how the commission is constituted. The parties should get interested in the process by ensuring that the persons picked to referee the electoral process do not represent partisan interests.The only way to ensure there is transparency in the process of picking the IEBC commissioners is by ensuring that all the political parties are involved in the process. It is the political parties that will either legitimise the electoral process or mess it up.This then means that the parties have the right to get involved in what happens at the commission. Let the parties play an oversight role in the process. That political parties having an interest in the selection of commissioners is not anything untoward. It is part of the democratic process.It is not a good beginning when the adverts for positions are placed and we hear about re-advertisements. Some people are being disqualified even before the interviews begin. What has happened, leading to the re-advertisement of the chairperson's position, is a sign of instability in the panel. This has the capacity to raise eyebrows inside the political parties and create unnecessary anxiety about the process.Similarly, we have heard of malicious schemes by individuals sitting in comfy offices in Nairobi taking advantage of this process to mess with the career growth of other Kenyans.They are filing frivolous petitions to deny others opportunities on the basis of baseless allegations.Some are even going to the extent of using independent constitutional offices and commissions to stop other, more deserving, Kenyans from getting the jobs for reasons other than politics.It is upon the Selection Panel to guard against these schemes. It must not allow people involved in dirty schemes to derail others&rsquo; ambitions for no good reasons.The Panel should protect the rights of all Kenyans and ensure that no one is denied his or her birthright due to cynical political expediency.