Cord coalition says it wants free and fair elections without back up; but the Jubilee Party wants free and fair elections with back up which can be manual or electronic. Despite these positions that identify with free and fair elections both Cord and Jubilee do not trust each other. Both believe the other intends to steal and rig elections against the other.Because of distrust, Jubilee was ready to provide back up in the law but without consulting Cord coalition while Cord has called mass action from the 4th of January in order to stop back up to the election system. In seeking protection against rigging Cord asserts that biometric voting system is perfect and fool proof against voting. Contrary, Jubilee says no system &ndash; technological or manual &ndash; is perfect and fool proof against rigging and therefore seeks protection against rigging in a back up system. Which system then is more proof against rigging? Manual voting system is not fool proof against rigging and that is why it is substituted with the biometrics system. But as imperfect as the manual system is, no electronic system is one hundred per cent fool proof against rigging even if it is technologically perfect. Even biometrics system needs the most effective back up system Kenya can get &ndash; whether manual or electronic.Between a biometric system with back up system and a biometric system without back up, there is little doubt that a system with back up is better than one without back up.And precisely because a biometric system with back up is more fool proof against voting than one without a back up, anyone who is afraid of and against rigging from either Cord or Jubilee should support back up for whatever main voting system we may have. While the opposition may have one hundred per cent faith in the biometric system, the truth is no technological system is perfect and that is why rockets to the moon have fail, planes crash and most advanced computer systems are hacked. What we now need is not simply to have the Cord or Jubilee side win but look for the best back up system we can have to insure us against rigging and consequent chaos. Ultimately however, we must agree with Justice Krieglar, however perfect any technological system may be, it can be hacked and is only as successful as those who operate it are honest. The real problem with rigging is not so much with the voting system but the dishonest people who operate it. Unless we find a solution to the lack of the right human and moral software, however perfect, the voting system will always be corrupted and used for rigging.In addition to having the right voting system, we must also make it work in harmony with our general democratic system. However perfectly our voting systems work, they will only give us one victor whom we must give responsibility to govern and not continue to oppose the person in the name of seeking inclusion that will most likely lead to our rejection of the democratic choice. As Winston Churchill said that, &ldquo;democracy is the worst form of government, except for all others&rdquo;, it is not perfect but often frustrating because it does not give power to everybody who seeks it and options of all other systems are worse. In a society of many groups, only democracy can determine who may rule at any one time without silencing others. Without democracy, an endless scramble for power can only lead to anarchy. While democracy must guarantee service to all, it is not a core function of democracy to include everybody in governance. In democracy, if one side wins, the losers may protest as we saw Hilary Clinton&rsquo;s supporters protest against Donald Trump&rsquo;s victory but they cannot seek to negate results of democratic elections through mass action. But we are told by Cord that mass action is allowed by the Constitution, is legal and shall be embarked upon on 4th January, 2016. However the Constitution does not allow mass action, which is defined for us by events of 2007 and 2008 as simply &ldquo;mass ethnic violence&rdquo;. Section 37 of the constitution says &ldquo;Every person has the right, peaceably and unarmed, to assemble, to demonstrate, to picket, and to present petitions to public authorities.&rdquo; It does not say &ldquo;every person has the right to mass action.&rdquo; Once again, we support free and fair election with every once of our energy. But with the same vehemence, we say no to mass action. Finally, we strongly support efforts by Senate to broker a free and fair election system that Kenyans deserve.