KCPE top scorer Victor Odhiambo's lack of friends drove his focus on the 2016 exam.The 15-year old said it took him a while to make friends when he transferred to Daisy Special School for the Physically Handicapped and Vocational Training.He moved from Frere School in Nakuru in 2012 when he was in class five. I thought Daisy was not the school I needed to be in so I spent most of my time alone," he said on Thursday.The boy did another year in class five as his teachers doubted his performance. He said it took counseling by his parents, neighbours and teachers for him to settle down.Odhiambo scored 97 in English, 99 in Kiswahili, 87 in mathematics, 71 in Science and 83 in Social Studies and Religion, despite having a hearing impairment.He said he was excited when he got the results that he started punching people."I was returning home from computer classes when I found my sister reading the results on her mobile phone. I was at the top. I was so delighted that I started punching people around me," he said during an interview at his home in Kakamega. I used to ask my father for books, which he provided. I read on my own most of the time. I wanted to score good marks so as to secure a sponsorship," he continued.He added that he was also inspired by his sister's frequent returns home because of lack of school fees, saying he did not want to go through the same.Read: Top KCPE candidate scores 437 marksOdhiambo is the second born in a family of eight. His father Stephen Chweya is a tuk tuk driver while his mother Carolyn Akinyi is a tailor.His starling performance earned him a date with Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya.The boy said he did all he could as his desire is to become a doctor. I even used to put my feet in a basin full of water to keep sleep away so that I could read during the night, said Odhiambo, who wants to join Lite Academy for his high school education. I want to be a doctor because I will able to touch the lives of others by making them better."Odhiambo was full of praises for Education CS Fred Matiang'i whose reforms he said helped students from little-known schools to shine.But he noted that the learning environment in special schools was not conducive. There were times when four pupils used one wheel chair because of the lack of facilities," he said.He added: "I realised that those who perform are not necessarily the cleverest but those who are intelligent, disciplined and God-fearing."He further said that cooperation between parents and teachers were also necessary.[VIDEO] Sossion shocked as Matiang'i releases KCPE results todayRead: CS Matiang i reforms curb KCPE cheatingOdhiambo and his family members relocated from Nakuru county following tension after the 2013 general election. His ancestral home is Nyandorera A village in Siaya county.The boy's father said he tok the decision as he feared violence would break out. Remembering what people from my Luo community went through during the 2007 post election violence, I decided to relocate to Kakamega, where I voted, with my family. I admitted all my five children to the special school in 2013, he said.Chweya said Odhiambo told him he wanted to work hard and become a doctor when he was in class four.But he said he had challenges raising school fees for him and his high-school going sister.Odhiambo's mother said they expected the bets from their son as he was disciplined and diligent. I knew he would do well but not this well, though that was the promise he kept making, she said. Odhiambo was a speaker at his school. Senior teacher Dennis Otundo described him as a highly disciplined student, good in both academic and extra-curricular activities.