Two-time Kenya champion Alastair Cavenagh in a Porsche 911 will be the first one off the ramp in the Top Fry Rift Valley 1000 Rally to be held in Baringo and Elgeyo Matakwetcounties from December 10-12.According to the draw conducted yesterday during the event s launch in Nairobi, Cavenagh will be followed by multiple Kenya and Safari champion Carl Tundo, who will be driving aTriumph TR7. Third off the ramp is South African speed merchant Geoff Bell, who is teaming up with Kenya s Tim Challen in a Datsun 260Z.The top ten is a composition of some Kenya s fastest drivers including six-time Kenya champion Ian Duncan, who is seeded fourth in a Ford Capri and veteran Safari driver Frank Tundo, who will drive car number six.Frank will be navigated by his daughter Natasha Tundo, who is incidentally the new KNRC Division Three drivers champion. Raaji Bharij and Rajay Sehmi (Ford Escort Mk1 )have been seeded fifth. The legendary Aslam Khan and his brother Arshad will drive car number 13, a Porsche 911. The South African Verlaque sisters Megan and Lola are seeded 23th and 26th respectively. The Verlaques are no strangers on Kenyan racing terrain having taken part in the ARC Safari Rally a few years back.The event got a shot in the arm yesterday when Menengai Oil under their flagship Top Fry brand came on board as title sponsors. Other sponsors for the event are BestWhiskey, Liquid Telecom and zero car providers Toyota Kenya.Clerk of the course Lynn Tundo while announcing the draw, said cars manufactured before 1985 are eligible for the event and will be divided into four classes. The seededlist comprises of all sorts of cars. Unlike what drivers are used to, this rally will feature a secret route with teams receiving their route notes in the morning just before the day sprogram revs off. The distance is a 1000km meaning the rally traffic will have to tackle over 300kms daily, Lynn said adding: The rally headquarters will be centered at Lake Bogoria Spa. Scrutineering will be held on December 9 at Lake Bogoria Spa with the flag off programmed for December 10. Lynn added that the route has been designed with competitor and spectator safety in mind and devoid of boda bodas, human and motor traffic. Menengai Oil head of marketing Simpson Osiemo said it s quite exciting day for the company to be associated with an event that rekindles old Safari memories. We are looking forward to the competition and will offer the required support to the organisers, Osiemo said. Former KNRC bigwig Rob Hellier said the event will be exciting given the secret location of the stages. I have not driven a rally car for more than a year and will take it easy on Day 1 to see how the car performs, said Hellier. Cavenagh conceded that he has lots of cobwebs to dust off after taking a sabbatical from the competition.