HAS a parliamentary committee developed cold feet about summoning President Uhuru Kenyatta s niece Nana Gecaga and the KICC Board over alleged mishandling of multibillion-shilling tenders for the World Trade Organisation? Well, the Joint Committee on National Cohesion and Equal Opportunity, led by nominated MP Johnson Sakaja (pictured), is crushing the hopes of hundreds of dejected suppliers. Sakaja is said to have signalled he will sort out the tender mess but did not say how. However, the suppliers and other committee members hoped that Nana, the KICC CEO, would be summoned before the committee. Weeks later, nothing has happened. Parliament went on recess yesterday until February 7, leaving the tender row unresolved. This threatens to irreparably damage the iconic convention facility s reputation. **** A city businesswoman facing off with a lawyer in court for property now fears for her life, after she was allegedly threatened by unidentified people. Word has it the businesswoman is so frightened that she has not left her house for weeks. It is also said that she has sought the services of a private security firm to protect her home. The woman has also informed police about the threats. Detectives are tracking down the culprits. **** JUST what is happening in the National Assembly s Public Accounts Committee? It appears one of the 28 banks said to have processed the Sh1.6 billion NYS scandal transactions has compromised some of its members with tens of millions of shillings for favourable recommendations. It s also said another key suspect has splashed MPs with millions to go slow on his case, with a promise of better tidings to come if the script goes to plan. The emerging scenario could lend credence to claims by a committee member - John Mbadi - that some of its members have been compromised and the outcome may have been determined. It is said this might be the reason it is taking too long to conclude investigations.**** Questions are being raised if some Machakos MCAs understand their constitutional oversight mandate. Corridors has learnt the good MCAs, who are supposed to hold embattled Governor Alfred Mutua to account on county spending, have let down their voters. It s said more than 10 MCAs always escort Mutua to the Senate Public Accounts Committee to respond to millions of unaccounted-for expenditures. Some committee members were heard saying the MCAs need serious training in how to hold the governor accountable. The senators wondered if they do it out of their own volition or are compromised.