The government yesterday suspended operations of the International Foundation for Electoral Reforms, thus blocking Sh2 billion electoral assistance from the United States. In a letter sent to newsrooms, it said IFES, an American NGO, is operating illegally in Kenya and is not registered. Employees could be deported. It was the latest indication that the Jubilee administration fears what it calls "external forces" allegedly out to destabilise the country and remove it from office next year at the polls. IFES is engaged by the American government through its development agency, USaid, to implement the Sh2 billion Kenya Electoral Assistance Programme for the 2017 general election. In what could signal a political showdown between Jubilee and Cord, the government through the NGO Coordination Board, said IFES is operating illegally. On Sunday Majority Leader majority leader Aden Duale alleged that electoral expert Michael Yard is working for the opposition coalition to rig the 2017 polls through technology. On Jamhuri Day, President Uhuru Kenyatta said foreigners were being used to influence the outcome of the polls. In a letter by the NGO Coordination Board, the government also said IFES Chief of Party Micheal Yard is working in Kenya without a work permit, as required in law. "Records held by the NGO board show that IFES is not a registered NGO in Kenya and therefore lacks the legal status to operate in the country," reads the letter by NGO Board CEO Fazul Mohammed. The letter is addressed to IFES, Principal Secretary Interior Karanja Kibicho, the Central Bank of Kenya governor and USAid. "The purpose of this communication is therefore to direct the InternationalFoundation for electoral systems, IFES Kenya office, to immediately cease all operations in the country, including the implementation of the Kenya Electoral assistance programme, Keap, 2017, that has been funded by the USaid to a tune of Sh2 billion to undertake electoral related programmes until such a time when IFES shall acquire a certificate of registration under the Act," reads the letter. The board said that IFES has opened and is operating several bank accounts in the country, contrary to the law. Fazul instructed the Central Bank of Kenya to take immediate steps to freeze all bank accounts held by IFES until further notice. The board also asked the director of Immigration to review the status of all foreigners working with IFES. This move could see a number of them deported if they are working in the county without a work permit.