A wrong precedent has been set concerning clearance of candidates to run for election.In 2012 the Court of Appeal ruled the IEBC cannot bar candidates from running &mdash; merely because of suspicion or a matter active in court.The court argued that even in an active criminal case involving a candidate, the electoral agency could only bar the person after all appeals were exhausted.This was definitely an unfortunate precedent that has come back to haunt the country. If we couldn&rsquo;t stop Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto on account of ICC indictments for crimes against humanity, it will be difficult to bar other candidates for less criminal cases.The import of the court&rsquo;s decision was that no one can be stopped from contesting because of a criminal case, unless, of course, that person has been convicted and the conviction upheld.Plans to bar candidates on grounds of dubious integrity are good. The intention is good and I am sure Kenyans will support such an initiative.The problem is that this remains the intent of whoever wants to implement it, whether the IEBC, EACC or others.Such an intention must go through Parliament to be actualised in some kind of law. MPs must support proposals to enforce integrity standards for candidates.But which MPs? This Parliament is the cauldron of corruption. We have MPs who have been struck from the roll of advocates, some have been linked to the NYS scandal and a majority have serious problems with CDF expenditures. This Parliament hosts architects of Anglo Leasing scandals, the Goldenberg scam, etc.How then can these MPs be in the forefront of enacting a law that would prohibit their own reelection and facilitate their possible arrest and arraignment? Not in Kenya because MPs are the culprits. Yet, attempts to bar candidates from contesting on account of integrity are sound and reflect good intentions.As Kenyans, we pray it happens and that we have a law barring looters of public funds from election.We need this law yesterday.However, the IEBC also has the power to stop people from contesting without looking at the law. MPs de-registered by their parties, who have gone to court to protect them are one example. The IEBC can kick them out on account of dishonesty.Manyora teaches at the University of Nairobi and also comments on topical issues