The hostility between Kanu and the Jubilee Party in Rift Valley became more evident on Tuesday, when the two parties held parallel fundraisers in Kabarnet town, Baringo county.Kanu and Jubilee were believed to have had a binding coalition agreement after the 2013 general election.Kanu was fundraising for youths at Kabarnet stage, while JP was fundraising for women&rsquo;s groups in Baringo Central. Jubilee invaded Kanu&rsquo;s turf and pressured Baringo Senator Gideon Moi to join the party, saying Kanu is dead. Led by Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, Jubilee leaders said Gideon should heed their call to join JP and back Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s bid for presidency in 2022, or prepare to stay in the opposition.He said when President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s term ends in 2022, Ruto will take over until 2032. &ldquo;Others will just remain window peepers. They will be like the less effective Yu network. Ruto is like Safaricom network,&rdquo; Murkomen said.Old- fashioned &ldquo;Kanu did not even originate from retired President Daniel Moi, it was started by Mzee Jomo Kenyatta. Later on, Uhuru owned it until he dumped it. Why is Gideon still holding on to an outdated and old-fashioned outfit?. Murkomen was with Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot, Baringo Governor Benjamin Cheboi, MPs Sammy Mwaita (Baringo Central), Grace Kiptui (Baringo woman rep), William Cheptumo (Baringo North) and several MCAs. They urged residents to vote for UhuRuto. As the JP team continued with its function, Kanu supporters thronged the party&rsquo;s office grounds, where Gideon arrived in two choppers with party officials.He was with Emurua Dikirr MP Johana Ng&rsquo;eno, Baringo speaker William Kamket, party secretary general Nick Salat and several MCAs.Ng&rsquo;eno said Murkomen is too junior to talk or declare anything against &ldquo;high-profile&rdquo; Gideon.&ldquo;Murkomen cannot advise Gideon on matters politics. He should stop talking about Kanu,&rdquo; he said. The Kanu brigade, which has a new slogan &ndash; Mambo Bado &ndash; said the party will win many elective posts next year.&ldquo;Kanu will fill all the competitive posts and we promise a fierce battle thereafter. We want to ensure Gideon takes over the presidency after Uhuru in 2022,&rdquo; Salat said. He said &ldquo;loud-mouthed&rdquo; leaders should stop meddling in Kanu matters.