Samuel Ochillo, the Speaker of the Homa Bay County Assembly, describes himself as a diehard &lsquo;devolutionist&rsquo;.The speaker says devolution is the best system of governance Kenya has ever had from independence.It aims to create an equal development platform in the country.&ldquo;Devolution has given county residents the right to manage their own affairs; to prioritise their development needs,&rdquo; says Ochillo, adding that whoever interferes with it should be resisted by Kenyans.Because of his love for devolution, Ochillo says he&rsquo;s always perturbed when the assembly suffers from lack of business.&ldquo;Residents of Homa Bay face many socio-economic challenges. It is upon the MCAs, as people&rsquo;s representatives, to bring forth these issues fore deliberations. It therefore treasonous for the assembly to lack what to discuss.&rdquo;But he is adamant that lack of business is mostly orchestrated by lack of quorum.Early this year, the Speaker had to adjourn the House after a brawl on the floor that nearly turned the Assembly into a battlefield.The trouble was triggered by the composition of the House Business Committee, with some members openly expressing their disapproval with those picked to sit on the committee that sets the agenda of the Assembly.Some members have taken advantage of the committees for personal gain and thus, they hardly ever want to be shuffled.Ochillo&rsquo;s knowledge of law has helped him provide guidance and navigate the House through such sessions.&ldquo;We have tried to reflect on what the National Assembly does in terms of decorum and deliberations.&rdquo;Even though a diehard devolutionist, the speaker is unhappy with the inadequate funding of the devolved units which is one of the challenges the assembly faces.Legally he is the chairman of County Assembly Public Service Board, Ochillo says the monthly remittance of funds affects the assembly planning.&ldquo;The budget allocation for assembly is not sufficient to conduct business. Committees lack funds to do oversight, especially during fact-finding missions on project areas.&rdquo;Ochillo is considering contesting for the Kasipul Parliamentary seat in 2007.&ldquo;I&rsquo;m consulting on whether I can go for the MP seat. I would want to go for a win, hence my call for serious consultation.&rdquo;BIOGRAPHY.1964: Born in Kasipul, Homa Bay.1973: Starts school at Got Ober Primary School in Kabondo Kasipul constituency. He did his CPE in 1979.1980: He joined Nyakeira High School. He sat for his O levels in 1983.1984: Gendia High School, Karachuonyo where he sat for his A level in 1985.1986: Teacher, Nyabola Girls High School.1987: University of Nairobi, graduated with a Bachelor degree in Law in 1990.1991: Kenya School of Law, Diploma in law. He then practised law in Kisii town for 24 years.2013: Elected Speaker Homa Bay county assembly speaker.QUOTES2013: &ldquo;I do not have any grudges with anybody. But I was shocked to receive a phone call from some people claiming they had been sent to kill me. The people have refused to divulge information which I needed. They insisted I should meet them but they refused to divulge the agenda of the meeting.&rdquo;2014: &ldquo;The constitution should be amended to stop the Commission on Revenue Allocation from deciding budget ceiling for counties. County assemblies and executives have different cash projections and special needs. The commission should not provide a limit of spending. They are interfering with the county management.&rdquo;2015: &ldquo;I&rsquo;m not privy to how a political party does its nomination. My mandate as speaker is to declare seats vacant and swear in a person nominated through IEBC.&rdquo;2015: &ldquo;Homa Bay county residents should always attend the county assembly proceedings... The people should join leaders and participate in development projects because it is the only way they can know which development projects are initiated where.&rdquo;