In Ilmao village, near Sultan Hamud, a railway line shimmers in the afternoon sun as it imposingly snakes its way around a hilly landscape marked by acacia shrubs and sparsely-spaced homes.Residents here call it the Berlin Wall as the embankment on which the railway is built rises sharply over their homes, separating them from erstwhile neighbours.The standard gauge railway was a source of hope for residents when construction first began. They hoped that it would open up this remote village where roads are impassable by any motorised means besides motorbikes. The nearest tarmac road is the Nairobi-Mombasa highway, which is about 11 km away. Residents have to travel 11 km on motorbikes or by foot to the highway to take a bus to Sultan Hamud, the nearest town. Railway transport was a welcome phenomenon, especially because the train terminal is only a short distance away.Ironically, residents say the railway has literally closed off the area further instead of opening it up. A fence made of concrete poles and barbed wired runs along the railway line, only leaving narrow spaces in areas where there are public roads. In a place where public roads are many kilometres apart, moving from one side of the village to the other is now a big challenge.Residents say the fence has cut them off from all public utilities such as schools, hospitals and the market in Sultan Hamud. The residents, predominantly Maasai herdsmen, often need to walk their livestock to the market for sale.Before this railway came, the land was open and herders could traverse the area without restrictions. They now have to walk more than double the distance they travelled before to get to the market.Jeremiah Ole Sein, one of the residents says he returned from a trip one day last month to find the SGR fence had been erected outside his gate shutting him out of his home. Since then, Sein goes through his neighbour s farm to get in and out of his home. I m at the mercy of my neighbours, says Sein, a herdsman. The day they tell me to stop passing through their land, I will never be able to leave my home. Sein owns an expansive piece of land and the railway cuts across it, dividing it into two. To get from one side of his ranch to the other, he has to walk more than a kilometre to a public road then go through an underpass of the railway. He says he will have to move his gate to the edge of his farm, more than a kilometre from his house, since the rest of his land has been fenced off.Residents say during talks between them and Kenya Railways before the construction began, the fence was not mentioned. We were shocked to see the fence encircling us. And because most of the agreements between us and the company were not put on paper, when you ask them anything, they say it was not part of the agreement, says Nackson Ole Umash, an official of the Kajiado County Congress, a community based organisations that advocates for the rights of the Maasai community.Residents want a dirt road running along the railway, which is expected to be developed to a service road for the railway, to be a public road instead.The Kenya Railways has constructed underpasses almost after every kilometre to allow access from one side of the railway to the other. But the fence makes the underpasses inaccessible, residents say. The underpasses also act as drainage channels. Residents say this poses a challenge during rainy seasons as the area has sandy soils which do not absorb water.Runoff water converts small streams into mighty rivers which come roaring through the tunnels.Julius Musembi, a farmer who lives close to one of the underpasses says he incurred heavy losses in April when his farm was flooded. Musembi, who grows vegetables on a 20-acre farm, says crop worth Sh1.2 million was destroyed. Mitigation measures the railway company had put in place did not work. They dumped heaps of soil at the edge of my farm to stop the flood waters but it didn t help, Musembi says. The waters were too powerful. I lost everything and even my water pan was silted. Residents say the tunnels are also too narrow and short for big vehicles such as lorries that transport sand from the area.Meshack ole Waupi, a former chairman of Ilmoi primary school says pupils are the worst affected by the SGR fence. The children have to walk for more than eight kilometres to get to a school that was originally about 500 metres away.The school was founded a few years ago to enable little children who couldn t walk long distances to get education, he says. Now such children will have to walk more than eight kilometres to school because the routes they were using before have been fenced off. We had about 365 students at the beginning of the year. By the time the school was closing, they were about 150, Waupi says. When schools reopen in January I know most of the remaining children will not turn up because the school in now too far. We will be forced to close the school or turn it into a boarding school. The Kenya Railways managing director Atanas Maina says he is not aware of any school that has been closed off by the railway.Maina says the construction company has ensured that there are enough underpasses especially in places where there s human habitation. Ilmao residents however say underpasses are not the problem. The fencing is.Some of them have vowed to bring down the fence if the construction company does not create a public road outside the railway fence. This fence is going to be a source of conflict in this community because people will have to trespass other people s farms while looking for a way out of their homes, says Umash.Sydney Quntai, the chairman of the Kenya Coalition for Wildlife Conservation and Management says the SGR has brought about many challenges to communities which should not be transferred to the next phases of the project.. Some members of the community are yet to be compensated after the compulsory acquisition of their land by the government, Quntai says. Others have had to sell their land and move to other places. One resident who lived near the railway line had his roof cave in due to the impact of the construction work. He had to relocate to another place. Wild animals have not been spared, Quntai says. Some of the animals are disoriented after the SGR cut through their habitat, he says. The standard gauge railway split the Tsavo West National Park into two and the Kenya Wildlife Service has since collared a number of elephants in the park to monitor their movements and see how they traverse the railway line.Maina says construction of the railway is still on-going and the concerns from affected people will be addressed in the course of time.This section of the railway is part of phase one of the SGR project, a 472km stretch that runs from Mombasa to Nairobi. Civil engineering works on this phase are 98 per cent complete and the contractor is currently doing final touches on station buildings and communication infrastructure, Maina says.Test runs are expected to start in February 2017 and the first passenger train is expected to leave Mombasa for Nairobi on June 1, 2017. The journey from Mombasa to Nairobi by train will take four hours and 30 minutes.