New entrants Strathmore Leos beat visiting Uganda&rsquo;s Kyambogo University 14-10 to bag gold in the 10th edition of the East African University games at the Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology yesterday.Leos made their intentions known from kick-off, leading 14-5 at the breather. The visitors clawed back a consolation try towards the end of the match but Meshack Odhiambo and Teddy Agutu ran two quick tries in the first half, which were converted by Brian Aluke. AL Hajji Manano scored Kyambogo&rsquo;s lone first half unconverted try before Okia Solomon added their second try to end the match 14-10 in favour of Strathmore. &ldquo;We had a sole mission of bagging Gold and I am happy the boys did not disappoint. The team was full of rookies and they did not disappoint bringing the trophy home,&rdquo; said Strathmore head coach Mitch Ocholla. On-form Kenyatta University&rsquo;s Black Blad won the Bronze title after beating Nairobi University&rsquo;s Mean Machine 21-10. En-route to the finals, champions Strathmore beat hosts JKUAT 29-0 in the first quarter-final match before thrashing Blak Blad 36-7 in the semi-finals. Kyambogo on the other hand, whipped Moi University 14-7 in the second quarter final match. They later thrashed Mean Machine 21-17 in the semi-final to deny Kenya an all-rugby podium finish in the semi-final.In hockey, though, the East Africa Universities Games men&rsquo;s defending champions Strathmore bowed out of the ongoing show. Fresh from winning the Kenya Hockey Union Premier League title, the Gladiators lost to Kisii University 3-1 and shared spoils with University of Nairobi to finish last in their pool.Both Kisii University and UoN thus qualified for the quarters, where they face University of Eldoret and United States International University-Africa today at Kenyatta University. The other two quarter final matches will pit Maseno University against KU and Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology against Moi University. Only Kenyan varsities entered teams for hockey.In one-sided duels played yesterday, Kenyatta University clobbered Rongo 4-0 and Maseno University beat Kenya Methodist University with the same margin.In KU&rsquo;s victory, Job Simiyu opened the scoring in the 10th minute as Brian Onyango added the second in the 12th to settle for a 2-0 lead against Rongo at the breather. Rongo looked to have regrouped, coming on more composed and mounted a water-tight defence on resumption but Felix Mandela scored the third goal in the 37th minute. With three minutes to the end, Dave Makori netted the fourth as KU denied Rongo any chance to score.Maseno showed class in their 4-0 win, scoring from the field. The well choreographed moves and neat passes wowed spectators as Sydney Onyango notched a double in the eighth and 37th minutes. Victor Mule and Desinard Magenge contributed one each. In men&rsquo;s handball, Strathmore University defeated Kampala University 26-21 in the quarters to book a date with Mt. Kenya University in the semis slated for today at KU. Mt. Kenya eliminated Limiru-based St. Paul&rsquo;s University with a 20-15 victory. The second semis will feature Kenyatta University and Uganda&rsquo;s Ndejje University. KU narrowly clipped Technical University of Kenya 23-21 as Ndejje hammered JKUAT 25-19 in the quarters.Both Kenya and Uganda are assured of places in the women&rsquo;s handball finals after finishing at the top of pool &lsquo;A&rsquo;. Ndejje will battle with compatriots Kampala University (who were second in &lsquo;B&rsquo;) in the first semis while Group &lsquo;B&rsquo; winner Mt. Kenya clash Kenyatta university in the other.In women&rsquo;s volleyball, Kenyatta University cruised to the finals after thwarting Uganda Christian University 3-1 (25-15, 25-22, 21-25, 25-23). Coached by Nelson Kibet, Kenyatta University will meet former champions Ndejje University in the final. The second semis was a repeat of 2014&rsquo;s final between Ndejje and St. Paul&rsquo;s University, where the former saw off the Kenyan side 3-1 (29-31, 23-25, 25-23, 23-25). The men&rsquo;s semis has drawn St. Paul&rsquo;s University against Uganda Christian University, and, Kenyatta University against Ndejje.