President Uhuru Kenyatta has assured commitment to a peaceful, free and fair election next year and urged all leaders to unite to achieve this.Uhuru pointed out that a credible process will lead to establishment of a legitimate government where legislators are accountable to voters, a key ingredient of democracy. I am making a firm commitment for myself and on behalf of party members, to conduct a peaceful campaign. I urge all leaders to consider signing up to this pledge, he said. Elections and the electoral process are an integral part of democracy that gives power to our people to choose their leaders. We should not let this critically important process be marred by irresponsible and destructive language during the course of political discourse."He addressed the second national leadership summit in Diani, Kwale county after signing the peace pledge a Mkenya Daima initiative. The conference was co-organised by both Houses of Parliament and the Kenya Private Sector Alliance (Kepsa.[Statement]: Raila snubs Kepsa summit, cites bias for JubileeThe President asked the public not to allow electoral violence to define the country s politics, saying they must not be personality-based, but issue-based. Noting that in 2013, the country s economy maintained positive growth for the first time during an election year, because of peace and unity, he expressed the need to build on that positive experience ahead of the next election. We can disagree on issues but this should not be the basis for personal hatred, he said.The President commended Kepsa and the Mkenya Daima Committee for spearheading sustained dialogue on the importance of safeguarding peace and security. It behooves us, as leaders, to join in a common cause and pledge to support this objective. In the run-up to the 2013 election, many leaders pledged their commitment to peaceful elections and incorporated peace messaging in their campaign messages, said Uhuru.Uhuru emphasised that all Kenyans including the media, civil society, private sector and politicians have a role in tidying up and telling a good story about the country to the rest of the World. Ensuring a fair, free, transparent and credible election process is the first goal we must all commit to," he said.Read: ICPC asks 2017 aspirants to commit to peace, free and fair pollsAlso read: Peace ambassadors to avert post-poll violenceUhuru observed that achieving political leadership should not be viewed as an end in itself but a means to inspiring positive change in the economy and among communities. The call and opportunity to lead is a privilege afforded to a few by the people of this great nation. It is a responsibility that we must take seriously and we owe it to our people to deliver on commitments we make, he said.The President highlighted some of the gains the country has made over the last four years under his administration. He cited critical investments and key reform initiatives implemented, in line with the Jubilee manifesto and Vision 2030, to promote inclusive prosperity of Kenyans. In the last three years, we have seen Kenya s rank in the World Bank Doing Business indicators improve, from 137th globally in 2014 to 108th in 2015 and further to 92nd in 2016, he said.During the same period, the President said, Kenya has been on the global map as the third-most improved country globally for two consecutive years.In February this year, Nairobi was for the first time reported to be the most attractive destination for Foreign Direct Investment in Africa, displacing Johannesburg.Uhuru said business environment reforms that his administration has implemented have positioned Kenya as an economic and diplomatic powerhouse, attracting major international organisationsthat have set up regional headquarters in Nairobi. He said security has also improved significantly and that most countries have reduced the risk level for Kenya and withdrawn travel advisories. At no time in history has Kenya played host to so many major international conferences. Neither have we ever hosted so many sitting heads of state, including those of the USA and South Africa, who had never visited Kenya before, he said.The summit, whose theme was competitiveness, nationhood and peaceful elections, brought together political party, religious and civil society leaders and captains of industry.Others who attended to discuss ways of ensuring a peaceful election process were parliamentarians, development partners, the judiciary and the executive.National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, his Senate counterpart Ekwe Ethuro, Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya and Kepsa Chairman Dennis Awori also gave speeches.