Every woman knows the power of a good lipstick. And now more than ever, it seems, we re investing in the stuff.While we might be buying more than ever before, generations of women have felt that lipstick is as integral a part of their morning routine as brushing their teeth.Like many women I know, I use it as armour a slick of Lipstick Queen s deep coral Jungle Queen, a slash of Dior Addict s hot pink Sensational or the power punch of Revlon s classic red Fire &amp; Ice can all lift my spirits and prime me for the day.But I ve also been disappointed by lipsticks that looked wonderful on the counter or on other people, but just didn t work for me. Just as certain colours of clothes look better on you than others, so there are certain colours of lipstick that you can pull off and others you can t, says make-up artist Virna Baillie.She also points out that as we get older, we tend to lose colour from our skin, so the shade you loved in your 20s might not be quite as flattering in your 50s.TIPS TO FINDING THE RIGHT SHADE It all depends on the natural undertones of your skin. Most people have pink undertones or yellow ones, and identifying these can be a good guide to what sort of lip colours will look best on you. If you re struggling to work out if you re pink or yellow, look at the veins in your wrist. If they look very blue, this means you re more likely to have cooler pink undertones, says Virna. While if they look more green, your undertones are likely to be warmer yellows. If you have a mixture of green and blue, you re lucky, as the undertone of your skin is neutral, which means you can wear a far broader range of shades. She adds that people with yellow undertones usually find they need to work with warmer colours, while those with pink tones look best in hues that have blues or purples within them. Olive skins, which have a yellow undertone, work well with vibrant reds, rich oranges and warm plums, she says. Very fair-skinned people, with cooler pink undertones, need to avoid yellow tones to stop them looking too washed out. But this is just a guide, often it comes down to trial and error. There s a shade of red or pink for you whatever your skin tone you just have to find it. If silver jewellery flatters your skin more than gold, you re likely to have a cool undertone, and vice versa.Also, consider your lip shape. If you have full lips, a darker colour will make them look smaller while bright colours will make them look larger.Make sure your liner matches your lipstick exactly. And never draw outside your natural lip line it looks dated.