An MCA aspirant is admitted at a Murang&rsquo;a hospital after he was allegedly kidnapped and tortured by police.Samuel Mwangi, who is vying for the Gitugi seat in Mathioya, said he was taken by plain clothe officers outside the county government offices in Murang&rsquo;a town on Wednesday evening.Mwangi, who was writhing in pain on his hospital bed on Thursday, said five men bundled him into a car, which had pangas and threatened to kill him.He said the occupants of the car said they had a list of seven people whom they were seeking, but they refused to tell him why they were holding him.They then took him to a cell at Maragua police station, before being bundled in the car again and taken to Githumu police station. Mwangi said at Githumu police station, the officers put him in a cell and tortured him until he lost consciousness.He said when he regained consciousness, he had been dumped by the roadside. Mwangi said he called a friend who took him to a private hospital. He said doctors took him for an X-ray when they saw his urine had blood stains and his body was swollen. &ldquo;I saw the people who beat me up and I can identify them. I do not understand why they did this to me,&rdquo; he said.Mwangi said the men accused him of disregarding the government and being involved in the drama in which the county government offloaded tonnes of manure in three fields prior to Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau&rsquo;s governor manifesto launch last month.&ldquo;I told them I was not part of that scuffle before I lost consciousness and heard them say that they did a mistake picking me and that they wanted someone else,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I fear for my life, because I don&rsquo;t know what they plan to do with me.&rdquo;After the incident several other youths claimed they have recently suffered in the hands of police. They accused police of taking political sides and using brutality to silence some people.Resident Nicholas Kiragu on Thursday said he was called to the Murang&rsquo;a police station on November 18 by police boss Johnstone Limo, who had said he wanted to talk to him about the manure incident. He said when he went to the station, he was arrested and later taken to court where he was charged with incitement. He said he was taken to Githumu police station, Ndakaini police station and Maragua police station, before he was returned to Murang&rsquo;a on November 21 and charged with incitement to cause violence.Resident Stephen Mwangi also said he was arrested on Wednesday after a police officer summoned him to the Murang&rsquo;a police station. He said he was then assaulted before he was taken to court on Thursday and charged with incitement to cause violence.The youths said they will forward their complaints to IPOA to have the officers involved in the assaults punished.