Kabras skipper Max Adaka has been suspended for six weeks after receiving red card in the match against Nakuru RFC in Kenya Cup match a fortnight ago.Adaka was sent off the by referee Constant Cap for a spear tackle.According to a report signed by judicial officer Willy Ombisi: &ldquo;The player held the opponent above the shoulder line and lifted him above the horizontal (off his feet) and brought him to the ground head first. The player had been warned and sanctioned (via a penalty kick) earlier about holding players by the neck while trying to roll them out of the ruck (crocodile turn).&rdquo;The case came up for a disciplinary hearing on December 1 at Kenya Rugby Union (KRU) offices in Nairobi and the sitting committee found Adaka culpable of the offence leading to the suspension as guided by World Rugby rules.Adaka missed Saturday&rsquo;s 15-15 draw against KCB and will miss matches against Mean Machine (away), Western Bulls (home), Mwamba (away), Nakuru (home) and KCB (away) He is match for Kabras will on February next year against Nondies. In his defence, Adaka pleaded for remorse, stating that he initially thought the red card was for the high tackle and not the lifting of the opponent above the horizontal and bringing the opponent to the ground head first. The player indicated that his split second decision while attempting a cross cover tackle. He said it was an accident there was not forethought malice whatsoever. Adaka also stated that he believed the offence was a referral by the assistant referee.The referee confirmed he had a clear view of the offence and only consulted the assistant referee to reconfirm what he had seen. The Judicial Officer further relied on evidence presented and player&rsquo;s response. In view of the aggravating and mitigating circumstances, the judicial officer reduced the suspension by 25 percent permissible to six weeks. As per clause 17.19.4, the judicial officer noted that the player had previously been warned for dangerous play and sanctioned via a penalty. The player though has been the subject of a disciplinary procedure in the 2014/2015 season, resulting in a one-week suspension.