IT has long been said that Kenyans have a tendency to do the most crucial things at the last minute. This is the result of a failure to look ahead and often leads to rushed and unsatisfactory decisions and grievous regrets at leisure. And this is true even of such basic decisions as the buying of school textbooks and the payment of fees. Look at Kenyans&rsquo; lemming-like behavior when it rains, everyone with a car seems suddenly to take to the road and the result is gridlock in inclement weather conditions.Kenyan procrastination has extended to planning and preparing for the General Election. Planning and preparing for the 12th General Election scheduled for August 8, 2017, has been so tardy that the event cannot possibly take place before December 2017. All the timelines are in danger of not being met and the legislative deficits are beyond belief. The 11th Parliament had less than five years in office but it and the 1st Senate have comported themselves as if they had all the time in the world. But, everywhere and on all sides, the time has run out. Look at the up-close-and-personal disarray that all legislators find themselves in just eight months to a scheduled General Election prescribed by the Constitution of Kenya 2010. They have had to pay mortgages and car loans in only 48 months and are required by law to clear all arrears by May, failing which they are recoverable from their dues. And then there is the small matter of seeking reelection or re-inventing oneself as a governor or senator. The incumbent legislators and their rivals can barely stand each other &ndash; witness the ugly wrestling match on the VIP podium in Homa Bay Town in ODM leader Raila Odinga&rsquo;s presence between party stalwarts Peter Kaluma (the area MP) and Washington Ogaga (his rival next year). At the same time the Opposition have appeared to be hell-bent on delaying the August 8 election while insisting all the constitutional niceties and timelines be observed. But it is patently clear that this will not now happen. The Coalition for Reforms and Democracy pushed mightily for the Isaack Hassan-led Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission&rsquo;s commissioners to be sent home and insisted that no procurement of election materials and technologies should take place while the IEBC is in transition. The timelines are impossible. Now Kenyans are faced with an IEBC secretariat that is exercising executive powers and going full speed ahead with the procurement of materials and ICTs in the absence of substantive commissioners. Meanwhile, on the political landscape, strange overtures and manoeuvres are in motion, the foremost of which is the ongoing activation of the National Super Alliance. Initially, it was apparently conceived of as the Opposition spaceship that would deny the Jubilee Party the 50+1 Presidential contest winner threshold and force a runoff, an unprecedented event in the history of Kenyan electioneering. And a runoff is much more feared by incumbents than by massed oppositions. The flight controllers of political spaceship Nasa, which is modelled on the Narc of 2002, the National Rainbow Coalition, have decided to dock their vessel early. Why? Because their real game is not a General Election that they might or might not win &ndash; it is a far subtler gambit. The name of Nasa&rsquo;s game is to put so much pressure on UhuRuto that they force the formation of a transitional government. A transitional government would be much like the Grand Coalition regime. The world over, transitional regimes go hand-in-glove with constitutional crises and overhauls. Few Kenyans know anything about the history of transitional governments, even the political class elite and media commentariat. Transitional government arrangements come about in times of constitutional crises, including revolutions. Provisional government is usually an appointive emergency authority and follows periods of civil and foreign wars. At its height the Kenyan post-election violence of 2007-08 was a near-civil war crisis and the Kofi Annan-led international mediation that produced the National Accord and Grand Coalition government put in place transitional structures and programmes, many of which lapsed before the March 4, 2013 General Election. With the August 8 2017 General Election timelines now untenable and the IEBC in no repair to manage and administer the polls eight months before Election Day, Kenya is hurtling towards a constitutional crisis that can only be resolved peacefully through all-party transitional government mechanisms. Few Kenyan operatives know this better or can see it more clearly, even in the political and opinion shaping elites, than former Prime Minister Odinga, a one-time Marxist-Leninist. Indeed, ever since being declared the loser in 2013, Raila has remained focused on the Majadiliano, or National Dialogue, idea, a near-cousin of the constituent assembly strategy. Indeed at the height of the National Dialogue agitation that greatly upset the Jubilee administration, on June 15, 2014, speaking in the Tononoka Grounds, Mombasa, Raila declared that the Majadiliano would take the form of a constituent assembly. Jubilee strategists who knew anything about the history of constituent assemblies were reminded powerfully of the most spectacular such assembly in modern history, the Russian one in 1917 at the height of the revolution. Raila&rsquo;s turbulent history and chequered career, which included two self-confessed acknowledgements of his role in the August 1, 1982 coup attempt by elements of the Kenya Air Force in two subsequent biographies, made the Jubilee observers and intelligence strategists all the more uneasy.President Kenyatta and Deputy President Ruto would not hear of a Majidiliano agenda that would relook closely at legal structures, human rights and political freedoms, the economy, institutions, equity, anti-corruption, historical injustices and international relations. If the IEBC is in no position to manage and administer the 12th General Election, that event will have to be postponed to at least December 2017 and at most into 2018 or slightly later. Among other things, this would mean an extension of the term in office of the Fourth President of Kenya and the 11th Parliament. While Uhuru&rsquo;s opinion of an extended first time can only be guessed at, MPs&rsquo; opinion would most likely be in favour &ndash; an extension buys them time to put their personal affairs in order. The entire political elite would have to agree on the extension, including if it should go beyond December. The political spaceship Nasa is a vessel that is purpose-built for just such an eventuality, much more than it is a device for a Round One victory on August 8 or a runoff. Who benefits the most from a postponed General Election and a negotiated transitional government along the lines of Nasa&rsquo;s proposed fully loaded Executive line-up? And who has the most to lose? Uhuru and Raila get to gain the most. The President gets his second and final term, a most significant term in that it ends the long Kikuyu run at State House for more than one subsequent term. Raila gets to become the Third Prime Minister of Kenya (the first two having been Jomo Kenyatta and himself) and in pole position to succeed Uhuru for at least one term. The big losers would be DP Ruto, Wiper&rsquo;s Kalonzo and New Ford Kenya&rsquo;s Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula. DP Ruto&rsquo;s chances of seamlessly succeeding Uhuru would be seriously complicated, if not derailed. Indeed, there are those who argue that Nasa&rsquo;s efforts are dedicated more to ensuring that a Ruto first term as President never happens than to denying Uhuru&rsquo;s reelection. This school of thought points to Baringo Senator Gideon Moi&rsquo;s role in Nasa and long relationship with that other Presidential son &ndash; Uhuru.