If this country holds chaotic elections and goes to war over the poll results next year, one man that should be hanged &mdash; metaphorically speaking &mdash; is the Communication Authority director general Francis Wangusi.Not long ago, it was Wangusi who engineered a near-information blackout in a mitigated tiff between the government and the media on the migration to the digital platform.The situation was so mismanaged that the country held its breath as he sat back grimacing under the weight of decisions his Authority should&rsquo;ve made public long ago. Had he done that, the media would&rsquo;ve been the wiser in preparing to switch from analogue to digital. But he didn&rsquo;t, only stalking media with loads of requirements for immediate implementation that betrayed slow-thinking on his part.Many may not know that at the centre of the government and opposition stalemate over whether to use technology in voter registration, identification and voting or to use the manual system are the same interests.But this current doublespeak is trounced when we recall that only a year ago, Wangusi said the country was ready. Now we are not.&ldquo; The National Information Communication Technology Access Gap Study&rdquo; is a ruse by the CA to justify why Kenyans cannot use the electronic system at the 2017 polls. The ambush in its release is deliberate. The ICT Access Gap Study says that only 28 per cent of Kenya, amounting to only 19 counties, has high speed access to 3G data. The rest of the country has unreliable low speed 2G. This basically means if you&rsquo;re using your mobile phone in a 3G area to Google, you will get and send information to the Star newspaper online quicker than a person in an area classified as 2G.But this isn&rsquo;t the reality. Mobile phone service providers sell to me 3G and sometimes 4G bundles and I am fine surfing the internet anywhere in the 28 counties. Unless I&rsquo;m a dunderhead, I expect the quality of voter registration, identification and transmission of results kits to be of such high-tech standards that they&rsquo;ll override the inadequacies in low-speed access just like our phones do.I&rsquo;ll not dwell on the application and dependency on technology in both private and public sector transactions, and successful application in elections elsewhere in contrast to our fake morbid fear over technology use in elections.M-pesa is the immediate contrast in handling billions of shillings and other data with hitches yes, but still highly efficient. Were we to isolate electoral areas with low-speed internet access, wouldn&rsquo;t we then agree on their management? Why is it that Jubilee insists on solely manual intervention rather than a mediated technology mix?The answer is as unequivocal as it&rsquo;s deceptive. Wangusi insists for the IEBC to transmit results from polling stations, it &ldquo;requires 100 per cent 3G coverage for it to be completely reliable&rdquo;.I&rsquo;m not tech savvy but such absoluteness is contrived hogwash. No country enjoys that luxury. The CA should therefore be offering a solution in conformity with its mandate to offer Kenyans the best there is in space technology, not affirming a politically engineered impossibility.Indeed, Raphael Tuju, then minister for ICT and now a manual system of voting apologist, must tell Kenyans what was all that hype and billions about a fibre cable for high-speed internet access.On the other end, it&rsquo;s too much coincidence that the IEBC drafts objections to a newly amended law, threads it through the Samuel Chepkonga-led Legal Affairs committee, and necessitates a special recall of the National Assembly.When the amendments were first read, there were no minutes of the committee meeting and Chepkonga asserted that, &ldquo;These are IEBC amendments. They don&rsquo;t belong to the Committee or Chepkonga&rdquo;. But when a second special session was convened the next day, the presentation had the stamp of the committee&rsquo;s deliberations.Could the CA&rsquo;s Access Gap Study be a product of covert legitimisation of the illegalities and inadequacies in forced amendments? Did the CA have to produce the study now or is it a product of a creative covert operation?.