Posta Rangers have insisted that youngster Cavin Odongo is not for sale.Club&rsquo;s chairman John Tonui stated on the KPL official site that Odongo will remain with the mail men for the 2017 season.Odongo had an impressive 2016 season, his debut year in top flight football, where he scored four goals to help Posta Rangers to a commendable fourth placed finish.&ldquo;As you know, we never sign players here on short term contracts and so the question of Cavin Odongo leaving doesn&rsquo;t even apply. He joined the club just this year and since he is a hardworking first team player, we have no intentions of letting him go,&rdquo; he said.Rangers have already roped in Ulinzi Stars midfielder Joseph Kuria, Rodgers Ochieng from relegated Ushuru and former Tusker and Muhoroni Youth goalkeeper Farouk Shikalo ahead of thew new season.They have at the same time announced the signing of three more new players after the festivities. &ldquo;We still have about three or four players to sign. We are making our recruitments according to the players who have left the club and those whom the coach has decided to let go. So expect more new names in January. Kuria, for instance, has come in as a replacement for Duncan Ochieng who opted to go back to his former club AFC Leopards,&rdquo; Tonui said.Rangers are now under the tutelage of Sammy &lsquo;Pamzo&rsquo; Omollo having promoted former coach Zedekiah Otieno to the position of technical director.Kuria, Ochieng and Shikalo are therefore Omollo&rsquo;s first signings as they build for the 2017 season. At the same time, Premier League champions Tusker have confirmed the appointment of Ugandan George &ldquo;Best&rdquo; Nsimbe as head coach and announced the signing of youthful defender Paul Muchika from Muhoroni Youth on a two-year contract.Tusker Media liaison Diana Yonah said on the KPL portal that Nsimbe was expected in the country any time this week to take charge of the brewers&rsquo; technical bench.&ldquo;Nsimbe is with us and when we resume training, we shall set an appropriate date for his unveiling,&rdquo; she said. Nsimbe&rsquo;s appointment comes only a week after his country-mate Paul Nkata left the club for coast-based Bandari.Tusker returned to glory times this year after a three-year hiatus, winning the Kenyan championship. The brewers also won the domestic cup this year under Nkata.Nsimbe will have the difficult task of competing in the CAF Champions League, where they have been drawn against AS Port Louis of Mauritius in the preliminary round.The 50-year-old was previously with Uganda&rsquo;s Premier League side Vipers. He led Kampala City Council Authority to three league titles in 2008, 2013 and 2014.