Amboseli National Park has recorded an increased number of tourists this festive season compared to last year, a Kajiado county official has said.Chief officer for Culture James Sankale said overall, the figure of guests visiting Kenya&rsquo;s second most popular wildlife conservancy after the Maasai Mara National Reserve, has gone up this year. Visitors to Amboseli have a clear view of Mt Kilimanjaro. The increase is a boost to the country&rsquo;s safari tourism which has experienced a downturn in the recent years due to security concerns. Sankale said the numbers have been rising since the beginning of the month following aggressive marketing campaigns domestically and abroad.Speaking ahead of the gala to mark the end of the seven-day Maasai Cultural week tomorrow in Loitokitok, the official said the fete attracted foreign and domestic tourists to Amboseli. The event, organised by the Kajiado government, is the second after the first last year at the border town of Namanga. American and Indians top the list of international guests at the expansive park.Guests will sample Maasai cultural traditions, food and dances during the function to be graced by Governor David Nkedianye. Several tour companies, Sankale said, have confirmed increased bookings ahead of the festival.&ldquo;Most hotels in Kimana and Loitokitok are fully booked and we are urging those who will be arriving late to come with their camping tents,&rdquo; Sankale said. &ldquo;We will provide them with space and security round the clock during the one-day event.&rdquo;Kimana is the venue for the annual Maasai Olympics. The fete was created to encourage the Maasai youths (Morans) to abandon traditional lion-hunting as a rite of passage to adulthood for athletics competitions.Serena Amboseli Safari Lodge manager Gathurima Mburugu yesterday told the Star that guests from the US, China and India have significantly increased from December 10.&ldquo;We have seen a rise in our lodge bookings this December as compared to last year at this time. Most tourists lodges and camps in the park and outside, have also registered an increase in the number of visiting tourists,&rdquo; he said.