Thika Sports Club golfer Eric Rugo shot an impressive 42 points to win the Sanlam Golf Challenge at the Par 72 Karen Country Golf Club.Rugo started off with a bogey on hole one to finish the front nine with 20 points. In the back nine, he bogeyed 4 holes but managed 22 points to conquer a field of 168 golfers.&ldquo;This was a perfect way to end the season. I almost faltered on hole 5 but recovered in the back nine,&rdquo; said Rugo. Ernest Waithaka carded 41 points to settle for the runners up position while Kennedy Anunda took third place with 41 points. The pulsating tussle saw another impressive run from handicap 16, Maurice Gitari, who shook off a shaky start with a blank to sink in a birdie on hole 5, playing 17 points in the first nine. Gitari&rsquo;s luck seemed to shine on him as he shot another birdie on hole 10, leaving him with 22 points in the back nine.Paul Rees won the nearest to the pin award with Edwin Kiarie claiming the longest drive. Kezie Kihara racked up the lady longest drive honours while Edward Mumira was staff winner after playing 32 points. Karen Country Club lady captain Louisa Gitau was the star attraction emerging the lady winner after sinking in three birdies to finish off on 38 points. Louisa signed off with a bogey on Hole no 1, followed by a birdies on hole 3, 10, 16 and 17. Golfers savoured an eventual day on the lush green fairways with all and sundry aiming home in one whose prize a plot in Runda. Sanlam Group Chief Executive Officer Mugo Kibati lauded all the golfers who took part in the event. Mugo added that the overall winner will get an all expenses paid trip to the Sun City in South Africa next year. &ldquo;Today&rsquo;s golf challenge was quite exciting for our partners and customers. We appreciate your confidence in our brand and we are keen on delivering our customer promise by providing insurance solutions for our clients. As a business, we are keen to continue offering you the best investment experience across the region,&rdquo; said Mugo.