The Energy Regulatory Commission is set to appoint the 47 counties as agents for licensing petroleum and cooking gas retailers in a bid to mitigate adulteration of fuel, director general Joseph Ng'ang'a has said. Kisumu has been picked for the pilot project beginning next month in a programme aimed at rooting out illegal dealership in petroleum and Liquefied Petroleum Gas products. Section 23 of the Energy Act 2006 allows the ERC to appoint agents for better performance of objectives and mandates. The project, if implemented, will see fuel retailers get permits from the counties on behalf of the ERC, Ng'ang'a said in Kisumu after signing a memorandum of understanding. &ldquo;We must ensure that Kisumu succeeds in this programme because it will act as a benchmark for other counties before it&rsquo;s rolled out,&rdquo; he said. The devolution of the licensing role, he said, will make it easier to handle illegal dealings and, or, fuel adulteration.The regulator has routinely been cracking down on fuel outlets. The exercise has seen various filling stations, including those run by major oil marketers, temporarily shut down and penalised. About 56 filling stations were nabbed in a nationwide crackdown in March. The ERC said about 96 per cent of the outlets were given a clean bill of health during the exercise. &ldquo;This (devolution of licensing roles) will help in various reported cases within the counties because instead of sending our inspectors from Nairobi, the counties can handle the situations,&rdquo; Ng'ang'a said. Kisumu Governor Jack Ranguma said his administration is committed to stopping fuel adulteration. In most cases, cheaper kerosene is mixed with petrol and diesel.&ldquo;I have received various complaints from boda boda operators. We will ensure that sanity is restored,&rdquo; he said. Ranguma said his county has launched Operation Nyangile Out campaign to encourage households to use solar energy because it is cleaner. One of the responsibilities of the county government in the Fourth Schedule of the Constitution is planning and development, including electricity and gas regulation.