The Central Bank governor Patrick Njoroge on December 2, 2015 declared that 2016 would be the year of transition to &ldquo;New Normal&rdquo; in the 41-bank industry.This, he explained, entails increased transparency, enhanced corporate governance and effective business model for banks, underpinned by new business lines and innovations beyond issuing of loans and mobilisation of deposits.Greater transparency through credible financial statements would instill public confidence, he argued,while stronger corporate governance structures with clearly demarcated roles among the board, the management and external auditors would improve performance. Sound business models, the third pillar of the &ldquo;New Normal&rdquo;, would help lenders weather potential risks and protect their market niche, he added.The governor's declaration came against the backdrop of surprise collapse of two banks, two months after he took over the reins at CBK on June 19. They were mid-tier Imperial Bank on October 13 for running a parallel bank that facilitated an elaborate fraudulent loans' scheme, and bottom-tier Dubai Bank on August 14 for cash supply challenges.The year has seen banks enter the &ldquo;New Normal&rdquo; with capping of interest rates at four percentage points above the benchmark Central Bank Rate, stricter guidelines for provisioning against rising bad loans and exit of two chief executives largely for alleged laxity in enforcing prudential guidelines.Njoroge, in his first press conference on January 22, said he would ask chief executive of large banks to justify apparent use of their dominant market share to increase interest rates. He was referring to a steady rise in interest rates on loans to 17.4 per cent in December 2015 from 17.2 per cent in November and 15.7 per cent in August, which he termed as &ldquo;troubling&rdquo;.&ldquo;This increase is more pronounced with the large banks. That is troubling because the large banks with more liquidity and deposits are the ones that are increasing their rates &ndash; instead of lowering it &ndash; even more than smaller banks,&rdquo; he said ahead of a meeting with the CEOs of commercial banks on January 23. &ldquo;We will have to deal with this, there's no doubt about it.&rdquo;The clamour for lower cost of credit rumbled on with the CBK resorting to publication of average interest rates in a bid to help borrowers &ldquo;vote with their feet&rdquo;. By June, average interest rate on loans &ndash; excluding processing and other fees &ndash; had risen to 18.2 per cent from 17.9 per cent in March, the CBK data showed on July 29. Some banks were charging as high as 25 per cent interest.The disclosure came at the peak of a raging public debate on the Banking Act (Amendment) Bill 2015, sponsored by Kiambu MP Jude Njomo, which had been unanimously passed by the National Assembly on July 27. The Bill was passed in a rare show of unity between the ruling Jubilee Coalition and the opposition Coalition for Reforms and Democracy. The lenders, through the Kenya Bankers Association, and the CBK unsuccessfully pleaded with President Kenyatta not to sign the interest capping bill into law. KBA chief executive Habil Olaka warned on July 28 majority of households as well as micro, small and medium-sized enterprises(MSMEs) may be locked out of the formal credit market if the Bill was to become law."We will be looking for high quality borrowers who can meet or fit within that which is prescribed by law," Olaka had said.Njoroge had argued that while there was need for lower interest rates, capping them will result in "inefficiencies in the credit market, credit rationing, promotion of informal lending channels and undermining the effectiveness of monetary policy transmission".The besieged lenders on August 10 made a public commitment to immediately cut loan rates by 97 basis points in line with reduction in Kenya Bankers Reference Rate during CBK's Monetary Policy Meeting on July 25. In a last-gasp plea to the president, the banks also committed to set aside about Sh30 billion for the MSMEs annually, Sh100 million technical assistance programme to help MSMEs negotiate for better terms and scrap the &lsquo;nuisance&rsquo; bank account closing charges.The banks maintained a rate cap undermined enterprise development because the MSMEs are the engine of Kenya&rsquo;s economic growth, which has underperformed its annual potential of 10 per cent by half on average. Corporates, they argued, borrowed as low as 10 per cent even without the law.&ldquo;Key corporates will not just go to the banks and be given the rate. They send out proposals to a couple of banks and say &lsquo;this is my financing requirement, what kind of rate do you charge?&rsquo;,&rdquo; Co-operative Bank CEO Gideon Muriuki said on August 10.Uhuru overruled his advisorsPresident Kenyatta, however, signed the mass-appeal rate cap law on August 24, ignoring advice from Treasury CS Henry Rotich and Njoroge. He stressed banks were insensitive.&ldquo;Kenyans are disappointed and frustrated with the lack of sensitivity by the financial sector, particularly banks," Kenyatta said.&ldquo;These frustrations centre around the cost of credit and applicable interest rates on their hard-earned deposits. I share these concerns.&rdquo; The rate cap law brought to an end a more-than-decade push by legislators to control interest rates, with previous attempts in 2001 and 2011 having flopped.Besides the rate cap shocker, the year also saw mid-tier Chase Bank closed and put into a one-year receivership on April 7 following a massive run on deposits, but re-opened on April 27 under the management of KCB. This was sparked off by a qualified opinion on the lender's books by external auditors Deloitte on grounds that Chase's management under-reported Sh8 billion insider loans. The collapse sparked off "flight to safety" by depositors. This forced the CBK governor to open a special credit window on April 10 for small banks experiencing a run on deposits.Seasoned banker Peter Munyiri also exited Family Bank in April ahead of expiry of his first five-year term in June after he chose not to renew his contract. Insiders, however, said he was forced out due to processing of Sh791 million National Youth Service cash at Family's KTDA branch without adhering to prudential guidelines. He and eight sacked managers are facing charges of aiding money laundering in court. National Bank former CEO Munir Ahmed and five managers were also sent on compulsory leave on March 29, with their exit being confirmed late April.Mauritian financial services group, SBM Holdings, in November announced it will have acquired bottom-tier Fidelity Bank by December 31. Tanzania's Bank M also acquired a 51-per cent stake in Oriental Bank in June, resulting in a rebranding to M Oriental Bank.