Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana has dismissed reports that he hinted at supporting President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s reelection. The Presidential Strategic Communication Unit quoted Kibwana describing the President&rsquo;s tour of the Ukabmani last week as a &ldquo;political tsunami that has shaken all other political formations&rdquo; in the region.But Kibwana denied the reports and said he remains the leader of the Muungano Party, which is an affiliate of the opposition Cord.&ldquo;My position is that I am firmly in the Muungano party, which I head and which is a Cord affiliate,&rdquo; Kibwana said yesterday on the phone.Kibwana is among the leaders pushing for Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka as the Cord&rsquo;s presidential flagbearer. The governor said he will ensure the region votes for Kalonzo.Speaking at Sultan Hamud last week where he hosted Uhuru, Kibwana said the people on the ground respect the President&rsquo;s office and have no problem working with the national government for the sake of development.&ldquo;I think sometimes you are told that we are not very good people. We have a history with you for a long time and I don&rsquo;t know where that history ended. You took some time, but you have come with good intentions,&rdquo; he said.Kibwana added, &ldquo;You are our President. The people here respect authority because the Bible says we must respect authority. We are not those individuals who say they will not work with the national government.&rdquo;He praised Uhuru for commissioning medical equipment in county hospitals, saying they have helped deliver quality services and the residents are grateful.&ldquo;It is clear that when these machines are used, patients recover well. Therefore, they are very important,&rdquo; Kibwana said.He urged Uhuru to solve the perennial water shortage in the county. The governor praised Uhuru for the numerous water projects the government has initiated in the region, including the Thwake Dam in Makueni. Uhuru toured Makueni county on Tuesday and Wednesday last week, where he commissioned upgrading of phase one of the 192km Kibwezi-Kitui-Migwani Road to bitumen standard.The road, which has been nicknamed the highway to Ukambani votes, will be upgraded for Sh18.4 billion.It cuts through Kibwezi, Kitui, Ikutha, Mutomo and Kabati towns to Migwani in Mwingi South. It then joins Makueni and Kitui counties. Uhuru also commissioned several road constructions in the county.