There is a crisis in the country. Doctors are on strike and Kenyans are dying in their homes and in the very hospitals where they should be going for salvation. Doctors say they should get higher salaries that match the years they take to earn their education and training and the hard work they do to restore our health when we are sick. If the last thing we want is to die or be sick, why are we not in a hurry to get our doctors and nurses back to hospitals where untreated diseases are wrecking havoc?While we are told negotiations between government and doctors are going on and there is no agreement yet, we must heed the Swahili proverb that 'Crows have a feast whenever locusts fight'. When government fights doctors and doctors withdraw services, ordinary people are the victims. Given the absolute necessity of medical services; the high skills the doctors have to treat us; the moral superiority of the doctors&rsquo; cause; and the truth that only government can give doctors the higher salaries they deserve; the government should hastily resolve this crisis by giving doctors better salaries. While in other countries doctors enjoy high status, are very highly regarded and highly paid, in Kenya nobody really cares whether their demands are met or not. Why is this? In Kenya, the doctors that have problems are not those who work in private but rather in public hospitals; and not those who treat the rich in private hospitals but those who treat the poor in public hospitals. Equally, strikes are hardly ever seen in private hospitals for the rich but in public ones where leaders never go and therefore never feel the pinch of pain, death and tears. Because the rich and the leaders who decide when and whether to end strikes don&rsquo;t go to public hospitals which are ravaged by strikes and don&rsquo;t miss their treatment in private hospitals during strikes, in reality, strikes never cause them pain, death, tears or sleepless nights. To them therefore, there is no real urgency to end strikes, especially when poor voters who could deny leaders votes are not protesting.Were leaders going to public hospitals and their loved ones dying there for lack of treatment, negotiations to end the strikes would be 24 hours round the clock. But people dying in public hospitals are not negotiating, while doctors and government people negotiating are not dying. To make it worse, government negotiators who have the most power to end the crisis have nothing to lose, however long the crisis takes to resolve. To end doctors&rsquo; strike soonest, Kenya needs mediators who are neither doctors nor government but humanists who have deep empathy for the Kenyans who are dying in hospitals for lack of treatment. To end the dying in out hospitals, doctors must return to hospitals. Hospitals must not be mortuaries and Kenyans cannot afford a genocide emanating from diseases. Yet doctors cannot be asked to return to work empty handed. Given what leaders are paying themselves whether they are ministers, MPs, constitutional commissioners, judges, governors and MCs when they work far less than medics, doctors cannot be asked to return to work without better salaries, not out of mercy but because they deserve better. After all, Kenya can never develop or grow to the level we want, if Kenyans are a sick society. Kenyans must be a healthy nation to develop but cannot be a healthy nation without doctors who are well looked after. That is the truth we must look in the face and accept. Ultimately, to end strikes by our doctors and nurses, we must end apartheid in our health sector between public and private hospitals, between private and public schools and where we live between our expanding slums and posh residential areas of Muthaiga, Runda, Karen and elsewhere. We must learn from Cuba, Scandinavia, Europe, China and Singapore that equal medical services are possible between equal citizens and tax payers, equal education is necessary for all our children and equal citizens have an equal right to live in residential areas that are equally good. So far, resolving the health crisis is best campaign for Jubilee Party.