Shareholders of the collapsed Imperial Bank want the court to compel the Central Bank to pay them Sh15.495 billion for loss of initial investment, deposits and the value of their stake in the lender. They allege this is comprised of Sh14.48 billion value of their shareholding in the bank, Sh1.008 billion in initial investment and Sh8.32 million in deposits.In a counter-claim suit filed in the High Court on Friday, the shareholders have sued the CBK, the Kenya Deposit Insurance Corporation and six senior staff who represented the CBK between July 2002 and September last year. This is the time massive fraudulent loans were issued without due diligence, resulting to loss of more than Sh30 billion before the mid-sized lender was put under receivership on October 13, 2015. The counter-claim follows a case filed by the CBK and the KDIC &ndash; the Imperial Bank&rsquo;s receiver manager &ndash; on September 30 seeking orders to recover up to Sh45 billion from the shareholders by freezing their assets in 44 companies. The former non-executive directors, in a twist on Friday, are accusing the regulator and its staff of colluding with the bank&rsquo;s management and external auditors, PKF, to defraud the collapsed lender from around 2012. The former directors argue that the CBK through its authorised officers &ldquo;deliberately, alternatively recklessly, failed to exercise its powers and to discharge its duties honestly and in accordance with the statutory regime (risk-based supervision)..., intentionally or with reckless indifference that loss and damage would result&rdquo; to them. They allege that the CBK failed to investigate a report of a whistle-blower on the fraud and misrepresentation of facts. The charges against the regulator and its representatives include misfeasance in public office, breach of statutory duty, negligence, unlawful conspiracy, deceit and negligent misstatement. Staff who acted for CBK during the time of alleged fraud who are named as defendants are Reuben Cheres, Peter Gatere, Alex Nandi, Simon Gichuki, Mediline Njeri Kihara and Matu Mugo (the assistant director in supervision department). &ldquo;The bank (Imperial), together with its depositors and shareholders, are the victims of a long-running, systematic and, ultimately, catastrophic fraud which, unknown to the plaintiffs(shareholders) until his death was perpetrated by Abdulmalek Janmohamed (the deceased managing director). The shareholders allege Janmohamed colluded with senior managers and other employees, including Naeem Shah, James Kaburu, Alisager Esmailjee, Peter Nzuki, Nina Shah, Robinson Boreh and Mehbooba Shamji. They argue that the CBK, through its staff, hid the bank's books detailing unapproved, over-limit and non-performing loans from the board. &ldquo;As a result, inadequate provisioning was made against the non-performing loans and unacceptable credit risks continued to be taken on behalf of the bank,&rdquo; they allege. &ldquo;A 'black hole' in the bank&rsquo;s books thus developed and grew.&rdquo; The CBK, the suit goes on, &ldquo;had all the necessary powers, information and means at its disposal to protect depositors and shareholders by revealing the fraud and preventing it from continuing&rdquo;. They claim they only knew the true position of the bank after the sudden death of Janmohamed on September 15 when he suffered heart attack. &ldquo;Had the first defendant (the CBK) discharged its supervisory function honestly and diligently, and not colluded with the Co-conspirators to conceal the true position from the plaintiffs (shareholders), the wrongdoing of the co-conspirators would have been readily exposed at a time when the depositors and shareholders of the bank could have been made whole, alternatively the bank would have been capable of being rescued as a going concern.&rdquo;