As a country, we all agree on the need for a free and fair election in 2017. But beyond that there is need for a credible and transparent process, where we can tell how people voted and respect their democratic will.In its report on the 2007 general election, the Kriegler Commission concluded that the reasons why the will of the Kenyan people was always subverted was because of the manual way of identifying voters: That dead voters routinely rose up from the graves, voted and returned to the graves.Adopting a technology that allows for electronic identification of voters is one of the ways of moving forward. But the IEBC does not seem to be serious on this matter.Whereas the advert for the tender for the Kenya Integrated Electoral Management System is a welcome move, it does not seem as if the IEBC is at all keen on it.Technology is good for elections, any elections. There is no point where you can say that it&rsquo;s too late to integrate technology in the electoral process. After all, we are not reinventing the wheel by adopting technology. Most serious democracies the world over, like India, have successfully integrated technology in their elections and there have never been complains.With the election slated for August 2017, the time is available for the implementation of technology in the conduct of the election. But I doubt there is sufficient political will to ensure the project towards digital voting is achieved.However, there is a slight problem: First, the law, the Elections Act, demands that before the deployment of any particular technological system, the IEBC ought to develop a policy. It is through this policy that we shall all agree on the components of technology to be adopted. This technology should be synchronised to integrate all facets of the electoral process &ndash; from registration and identification of voters to voting and transmission of results. Any manual identification of voters takes us back where we cannot account for all those who voted.We are setting ourselves up for failure. More critical is why we are vesting the task of purchasing the equipment of the next elections in the retired commissioners.They should allow the incoming commissioners to participate in this tender because they are the ones who will use it.