Mombasa speaker Thaddeus Rajwayi has opposed the six-piece voting system proposed by ODM leader Raila Odinga.This puts him on a collision course with the opposition chief.Rajwayi, who was suspended by MCAs after breaking ranks with Governor Hassan Joho, last Thursday said, &ldquo;Mombasa is the best example why people should not vote in a six-piece pattern.&rdquo;Six-piece voting is where one votes for candidates in the same party in all elective positions.&ldquo;The six-piece voting resulted in Mombasa being an ODM assembly, which made it inefficient,&rdquo; Rajwayi said during an exclusive interview with the Star.He said because all 43 MCAs are in ODM, they have monopoly over what projects to implement and residents&rsquo; interests are not being taken care of.The assembly is made up of 30 elected MCAs and 13 nominated ones. Two nominated ward representatives died and are yet to be replaced.Rajwayi will run for Nyali MP. He has been campaigning quietly, meeting strategists and his team.Contrary to reports he has joined Wiper and will support Nyali MP Hezron Awiti&rsquo;s bid for governor, Rajwayi said he is yet to decide whom he will back.He said only three candidates have a chance of clinching the governor seat - Joho, Awiti and Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar. Rajwayi dismissed other hopefuls, saying they have no chance.He said Suleiman Shahbal and Anania Mwaboza, both in Jubilee, have no hope of winning.&ldquo;First, I am in ODM to stay. I have not moved to Wiper. Nothing will stop us from strengthening ODM, which is our primary role,&rdquo; Rajwayi said.&ldquo;I will support a candidate who will help and represent the interests of the people of Mombasa.&rdquo;Rajwayi is seen by many as a crucial cog in the potential winning team.The candidate he throws his weight behind will have better chances of clinching the seat because of the estimated over 60,000 Luo votes in the county.Political analysts say he could win the Nyali MP seat because of sympathy votes from the Luo community.They say the community was upset by the way Rajwayi was treated by MCAs, with most believing his attempted sacking was orchestrated by Joho.Joho has distanced himself from the speaker&rsquo;s woes.Awiti has reached out to Rajwayi to join Wiper.Joho is said to have sent emissaries to speak to Rajwayi, his one-time close ally.&ldquo;I am not endorsing anyone. Sarai [Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar] is a personal friend, Awiti is a brother and Joho is equally a brother and a friend to me. Choosing one of the three now is suicidal to me,&rdquo; he said. Two weeks ago, Rajwayi said, &ldquo;Where there is smoke, there is fire. Expect an inferno and real fights in 2017. We know who has already lost. Whether they like it or not, we are going to take over.&rdquo;He spoke after a service at Ushindi Baptist Church in Likoni. Awiti was present. It has been six months since Rajwayi was barred from presiding over assembly sittings. Rajwayi compared unnamed leaders to farmers who pluck feathers from their poultry and only feed them when they are on the brink of death.