Nineteen people motorists were arrested and arraigned in court for flouting traffic rules and offering bribes to staff of the National Transport and Safety Authority.The 19 motorists were flagged down in Nairobi, Kiambu, Narok and Nakuru for flouting traffic rules during a three-day joint operation on the country's highways conducted by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and NTSA. They offered bribes to NTSA regulation enforcers so they avoid being charged with the offences. &ldquo;The joint operations during the long weekend were successful and resulted in the arrest of several people for flouting traffic regulations...Some of the activities during the operations were video recorded,&rdquo; a statement by EACC's Pamela Chepkemei said. EACC said the operations will be sustained throughout the December holiday to ensure motorists do not give bribes to NTSA and police officers after flouting traffic rules. The EACC and NTSA joint day and night operations were conducted from Friday to Monday countrywide. On Friday, the anti-graft commission and NTSA officers conducted a night operation on the Wangari Maathai Road between 11pm and 2am, near the University of Nairobi&rsquo;s Parklands Campus. NTSA director general Francis Meja and EACC deputy chief executive Michael Mubea visited the operation area to observe the activities. Five people were arrested by the EACC investigators for offering and giving bribes to NTSA officers to avoid arrest for driving under the influence of alcohol. Another joint operation was conducted on Valley Road and two people arrested for offering bribes to NTSA officers. On Saturday and Sunday, the team covering the Nakuru-Nairobi Highway carried out operations at Gilgil and arrested nine people offering bribes. Another team on the Mai Mahiu-Narok road carried out operations at Mai Mahiu and Mulot arrested three motorists for flouting traffic regulations andoffering bribes to NTSA officers. They were handed over to EACC investigators. &ldquo;This was informed by numerous reports that road users are the ones who initiate bribery by offering and giving bribes to the officers so as not to be charged with traffic offences," Chepkemei said."The most common offences the drivers commit on the roads are drunk driving, driving non-complaint vehicles and over speeding.&rdquo;