A Member of Parliament, fond of using his Continental House office as a bedroom to quench his lust, is at it again, taking full advantage of the ongoing recess. The flamboyant middle-aged lawmaker from Western Kenya who had slowed down considerably after his tricks were highlighted by Corridors early this year, has shamelessly slipped back into true character. He is sneaking curvaceous university ladies into his office. Last Friday, on a quiet evening without the usual hustle and bustle, the smooth operator had a guest in his Continental House office sneaked in through the rear entrance overlooking the main Parliament Buildings. What surprised the security orderlies who have softened the rules barring strangers access after 6pm is the overstay which went beyond midnight. Fearing consequences, the orderlies let the gorgeous lady exit, without question, but were surprised after noticing she was not the frequenter who usually romps with the MP. **********That the governors have amassed reelection financial war chests is not in doubt. With less than eight months to the next general election, one governor who faces the do-ot-die fight of his life against an onslaught from a galaxy of rich politicians was overhead saying that each incumbent could spend up to Sh10 billion in the campaigns. The governor chest-thumped that it will be a titanic battle next year to oust incumbents because of the massive resources and networks at their disposal. He confidently reckons that governors will unleash high-flying campaigns that could rival some presidential aspirants&rsquo; as they seek a second and last constitutional term in office. Several governors are said to have lined up their teams in almost all elective seats in their jurisdictions with a keen interest in tightening their grip on he grassroots.********** A contractor working on a key road at the heart of the Jubilee campaigns in Kisii county is on the spot. Months after President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) launched the construction of the Mogonga-Kenyenya-Etago road, the site contractor appears to be facing capacity challenges, slowing down the pace of construction works. The contractor has been accused of creating numerous road diversions for motorists but then ends up doing virtually nothing on the main road. He is yet to do even a kilometre of tarmac, three months into his contract, fuelling anxiety among locals who have been apprehensive that the construction could be a campaign gimmick aimed at hoodwinking them ahead of the polls.