President Uhuru Kenyatta has panicked over next year&rsquo;s election and is trying to blame foreigners for trying to influence the polls against him, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has said.Mudavadi said on Monday and yesterday Uhuru&rsquo;s remarks that NGOs and foreign countries are helping the opposition are a clear signal he is scared and &ldquo;hell-bent on creating a siege mentality&rdquo; among his supporters.He said the Jubilee leadership is scared of the morphing opposition. Mudavadi is spearheading formation of a united opposition front called the National Super Alliance. Cord co-principals Raila Odinga, Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula and Kalonzo Musyoka have pledged to coordinate efforts to ensure they go united into the next polls.Mudavadi and Raila made a public appearance on Tuesday last week. They said they regretted parting ways ahead of the 2013 general election and pledged to stand together..Mudavadi said Uhuru is trying to play the &lsquo;foreign card&rsquo; strategy he used in the last polls, adding it can no longer work.&ldquo;He is attempting to recreate the 2013 scenario, when his campaign was based on near-xenophobia in deriding foreigners. He thinks he can blame foreigners for all the looting and poverty his supporters are experiencing,&rdquo; Mudavadi said.sabotaging right to vote&ldquo;When you tell the voters there is money flowing to the opposition, they are likely to be reluctant to freely vote, but, instead, demand payment first. He is sabotaging the rights of Kenyans to freely vote.&rdquo;While addressing the Jamhuri Day celebrations on Monday, Uhuru said money is pouring into Kenya from abroad in the guise of supporting good governance and civic education. But the intention is to influence &ldquo;our electoral choices&rdquo;, the President asserted&ldquo;I want to caution those members of the international community taking these actions that the Kenyan people do not look kindly on such actions,&rdquo; he warned in Nairobi.Caught flat-footedMudavadi said Uhuru wants to divert attention from a bad record in office that has caught him flat-footed at election time.He said it is now clear Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto, from the onset, did not know what government is about.&ldquo;Remember they came to me in 2013 because they were not ready. They think leading a country is a personal gift. They think you go into government so you can enjoy the good life at the expense of everyone else,&rdquo; Mudavadi said.He said the &ldquo;tribal animosity the Jubilee administration incubates&rdquo; is extremely dangerous for the country&rsquo;s cohesion. On Monday, Mudavadi described Uhuru&rsquo;s Jamhuri Day speech as &ldquo;boring recitation of Jubilee failures&rdquo;.In a statement, he said the President confirmed he believes in the deceitful &lsquo;we have set aside&rsquo; Jubilee development philosophy used by his government to hide incompetence and dupe Kenyans.&ldquo;I listened to the President&rsquo;s speech with shock...where figures in billions of shillings were mentioned...poor Kenyans don&rsquo;t see or feel what these billions do, but know they go into feeding the ogre of corruption,&rdquo; Mudavadi said. He said the President ignored corruption issues, including the NYS scandal, during his speech.&ldquo;I urge all Kenyans to reject such interference. This is our country, and no one should ever try and control our choices for their selfish interests.&rdquo;Referring to claims Russia interfered in the US Presidential election by hacking into party and personal computers, Uhuru said Kenyans have the right to make choices free of external interference.