At least 12 people are dead and 50 injured after a truck rammed into a busy Christmas market in the German capital of Berlin, according to several reports.The attack took place Monday evening at the Breitscheidplatz, a major public square, in Western Berlin.CNN reports that the crash is being investigated as an act of terrorism, citing a German intelligence official. Witnesses on the scene said that the crash looked deliberate.Berlin police tweeted that a suspect has been apprehended and second person was found dead inside the truck at the crash scene. It's unknown if there are any other suspects. The police later tweeted that the truck had Polish license plates. The Berlin fire department posted that 45 wounded have been taken to local hospitals.The market was filled with many holiday shoppers at the time of the incident. Emma Rushton, a witness to the crash, said the truck was traveling 40mph in a pedestrian area. She tweeted there were no roads nearby and she saw multiple people lying on the ground.The crash follows a similar act of terror in Nice, when a truck driver plowed through Nice, France on Bastille Day, killing 86. ISIS claimed responsibility for the July 19 attack."The person who carried out the operation in Nice, France, to run down people was a soldier of the Islamic State, who carried out the operation in response to calls to target states that are part of the coalition fighting Islamic State," said A' Maq, the press agency supporting ISIS.On July 23, a German-Iranian teen, reportedly inspired by other mass murderers, gunned down nine people at a Munich mall. Authorities believe he was a loner and acted alone.Both the White House and President-elect Donald Trump commented on Monday's crash.A statement from the National Security Council spokesperson Ned Price read:"The United States condemns in the strongest terms what appears to have been a terrorist attack on a Christmas Market in Berlin, Germany, which has killed and wounded dozens. We send our thoughts and prayers to the families and loved ones of those killed, just as we wish a speedy recovery to all of those wounded. We also extend our heartfelt condolences to the people and Government of Germany. We have been in touch with German officials, and we stand ready to provide assistance as they recover from and investigate this horrific incident. Germany is one of our closest partners and strongest allies, and we stand together with Berlin in the fight against all those who target our way of life and threaten our societies."The President-elect tweeted, "Today there were terror attacks in Turkey, Switzerland and Germany - and it is only getting worse. The civilized world must change thinking!"This story is developing.