Crystal Palace Vs Chelsea Today 3:30pmWhy bother even going over this game knowing that Chelsea are going to ride all over them! Palace have won just one game in their last ten and Chelsea have won their last ten. Antonio Conte&rsquo;s boys are on fire and a small team like Crystal Palace isn&rsquo;t going to interfere with that. As much I know Chelsea has to lose sometime and hope that it&rsquo;s a random team like Palace; it&rsquo;s not going to happen. So let me stop wasting your valuable time and give Chelsea my money and the three points! And I should even go further to naming Diego Costa as a scorer! My Prediction: Palace 0-3 The BluesWest Brom Vs Manchester United Today 830pmThis mid table clash could go either way you know. West Brom are doing extremely well and are just one position and three points behind Manchester United in the standings. In fact, as Man United &lsquo;struggled&rsquo; to beat Crystl Palace 2-1 on Wednesday, West Brom was smashing Swansea 3-1! Salomon Rondon hit his first Premier League hatrick and will be more than fit to face the Devils. Manager Tony Pulis has found his winning formula and he&rsquo;s tackling each game as it comes. I am impressed. But Jose Mourinho is also appearing to find his first eleven or is it fluke? As much as we laughed at their string of draws in November, they&rsquo;ve only lost one game in their last ten. I hate to say United are looking good but the Baggies are playing so fearlessly right now. I think this game will be tough for both managers and Mourinho&rsquo;s break from draws will end here. My Prediction: The Baggies 1-1 The Reds DevilsManchester City Vs Arsenal Tomorrow 7pmThis is the tie of the weekend because it will have an impact on the top four or should I say position two to four given that Chelsea are running away with the points each week. Arsenal are a point and a position ahead of City and both teams seem to have faltered in recent weeks. City had two losses in a row, against Chelsea and Leicester which made everyone begin to doubt Pep Guardiola&rsquo;s ability to conquer England. But Arsenal stunned everyone by going down to Everton, although I am beginning to believe that Ronald Koeman is our bogie manager especially when we play him in December. Both these clubs have quality players although one on one, City probably has more world class players but Arsenal have been showing great team work over the season. The Gunners need individuals to put their best feet forward to win this game. It isn&rsquo;t impossible to beat City at the Etihad, We&rsquo;ve done it before, even in recent years but focus and concentration needs to be at 100%. The midweek mishap will inspire the Gunners to get the title challenge back on track! Watch this space! My Prediction: The Citizens 1-2 The GunnersEverton Vs Liverpool Monday 11pmEverton can beat you Liverpool, just ask Arsenal. This will be Ronald Koeman&rsquo;s first Merseyside derby in the league and I&rsquo;m sure he&rsquo;ll be hoping to replicate the damage he did to Arsenal midweek. The boys in blue were comfortable at home midweek and entertaining another big side at home won&rsquo;t scare them. At this point in the season it isn&rsquo;t only about how you play but if you are effective. All teams, even Everton in midweek, were showing signs of fatigue as the league begins to take its toll. But it&rsquo;s getting results that matter. Liverpool though have been getting the results. Fatigue and injury has been their downfall but they&rsquo;re holding on because they have endless talent lined up. As much as I always want the reds to drop points, I am happy when Divock Origi scores. May he score again in this game and may it end in a scoring draw. Haha. My Prediction: The Toffees 2-2 The Reds