Albert Einstein once defined insanity as the art of doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results. This applies to our everyday life, whether it is how we carry out private business or public affairs, including politics.I would not want in any way to suggest that Raila Odinga is insane for running what appears to be a losing race for the fourth time, next year. However, his method of going about it points to a man who thinks he can actually run for the presidency in a similar manner and expect different results.Raila has run for President too many times, and it&rsquo;s time that he retires from active politics and maybe nurtures a new generation of leaders. Each of the three times he ran, he failed and twice claimed he was rigged out.As I argued on this column a few weeks ago, Raila&rsquo;s method is to divide and rule expecting to alienate some sections of Kenya. This has made him attract many political enemies, who can no longer trust him even as he attempts to run for President for the fourth time. Raila&rsquo;s first attempt at the presidency was in 1997, when, after a two-year tussle, he challenged Wamalwa Kijana for the chairmanship of Ford Kenya but lost. He resigned from Ford Kenya after losing and founded the National Development Party and became its presidential candidate. He finished third.After backing Narc candidate Mwai Kibaki at the 2002 elections he became a Cabinet minister. But he fell out with Kibaki in the run-up to the 2005 referendum. He, among other ministers, was kicked out of the government and they formed the Orange Democratic Movement. In August 2007, his style of leadership led to the split of ODM and ODM Kenya was created by Kalonzo Musyoka. He lost to Kibaki. During this time, he led a 40-against-one campaign aimed at alienating the Kikuyu community.His third attempt was in 2013, when he again tried to put together a coalition aimed at fighting off what he said was a union of two tribes &mdash; the Kikuyu led by Uhuru Kenyatta and the Kalenjin led by William Ruto. He lost the election and a petition he had taken to the Supreme Court challenging the outcome. Uhuru was declared President.The former Prime Minister, who got this position by virtue of blackmail following the post-election violence, partly triggered by his rigging claims, wants us to believe that he has one last bullet to win the presidency, and believes he will be successful. The truth is, his cartridge is as empty as it was the other three times.Unlike Kibaki &mdash; whom he forced to share power with in 2008 and who after a lifetime in politics had no real enemies, thus a uniting figure &mdash; Raila has made very many enemies in his 25-year career in politics. These political enemies will do everything they can to keep him from winning.Raila has refused to reform into a uniting figure and has instead worked hard to destroy the few networks he has created. If you look at what he is doing currently, he has sidelined Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula and replaced him with Musalia Mudavadi.Raila&rsquo;s dalliance with Mudavadi is aimed at forming another alliance to counter the popular Jubilee duo of Uhuru and Ruto. But does Raila have what it takes to step down, or support someone else for the presidency? Can he say &ldquo;Mudavadi Tosha&rdquo; under NASA? Absolutely not.Raila would only wish to be the sole opposition candidate or be among the two or three who will face off with Uhuru. He knows getting Kalonzo or Mudavadi as his running mate has failed him twice in the past. However, his nature of politics will not allow him to step down for any of them.And this is why his cartridge is empty and his last shot at the presidency will be a blank.