Kenya yesterday secured a Sh11 billion finance deal from the 28-member European Union towards food security and drought mitigation programmes. President Uhuru Kenyatta witnessed the signing of finance agreements, according to a statement from the Presidential Strategic Communications Unit. National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Henry Rotich signed on behalf of the Kenyan government, while the EU Commissioner in charge of International Cooperation and Development Neven Mimica signed on behalf of the EU. About Sh2.1 billion will be pumped into the operationalisation of the Kenya&rsquo;s Ending Drought Emergencies Strategy &ndash; an ambitious plan by the Jubilee administration to end &ldquo;the worst of the suffering by drought&rdquo; by 2022. The strategy, developed jointly between the government and the development partners, focuses on the 23 most-prone counties, the statement said. &ldquo;The proposed programme will also promote the establishment of Public Private Community Partnerships to increase the role of the private sector in the construction and management of water supply services,&rdquo; the dispatch added. Nearly half of the cash, Sh5.3 billion, will be spent to support productive, adapted, and market integrated smallholder agriculture .The programme builds on the ongoing 10th EDF Kenya Rural Development Programme and the standards and market access project. It is aimed at supporting smallholder productivity and resilience, agricultural research and services, food quality and safety. The EDF grant support will target provision of water services and training to enable smallholder investment on farm, as well as reduce financial risks by way of interest subsidies. According to the statement, about Sh3.6 billion will be used in the programme for legal empowerment and aid delivery. The programme targets the counties with the five largest urban centres , and seven counties of the most marginalised areas. &ldquo;It seeks to address the linkage between marginalisation of communities concerned and their exposure to criminal activities,&rdquo; the statement read.