ODM leader Raila Odinga on Saturday condemned the chaos that marred the party s political rally in Homa Bay county on November 27.He said it was wrong for leaders to fight in an event that was expected to unite the ODM family as it commemorated former Senator Otieno Kajwang , who was a staunch member.Chaos erupted in Homa Bay Stadium, as Homa Bay Town MP Peter Kaluma and hopeful Washington Ogaga engaged in a fistfight. Raila said ODM is not party to hooliganism, adding it will not condone leaders who perpetrate chaos. He told party members and hopefuls to stop supremacy wars, as popularity is not gained through political violence. I wasn t pleased with what happened in Waondo and Homa Bay Stadium. Let s learn to be together because you will need the support of the one you fight after nominations, Raila said.He said the infighting would allow their rival Jubilee to get political inroads into the ODM strongholds. The ODM leader reiterated the party s position that it will conduct free and fair nominations. You should know that any slight slip in ODM is happiness to Jubilee, hence the Kiswahili saying: Vita vya panzi ni furaha ya kunguru (When grasshoppers fight, the crow gloats), he added.Raila spoke in Kogweno Kawuor village, Karachuonyo constituency, during the third year memorial of the late Barack Okul, who was an ardent party member.Focus on top seatHe urged ODM members to focus their attention on how the party could clinch the presidency at the next polls, instead of engaging in internal wars. ODM nominations is an in-house affair. It should not be a do-or-die for you. We want you to focus on how we can consolidate our support and clinch the national leadership next year, Raila said. Nominations will be a friendly match that should not divide us. The big task we have in waiting is how to win the top seat. Raila urged his supporters to enlist as voters, saying he is prepared to square off with Jubilee s President Uhuru Kenyatta.ODM chairman John Mbadi warned some individuals he did not name against masquerading as party officials, saying the genuine officials are those holding certificates from Orange House. ODM is not a party led by [the law of the] jungle. The party has clear political structures that must be followed by anyone who feels aggrieved, he said.Nominated MP Oburu Oginga said such infighting could cause voter apathy. He urged the losers in the upcoming nominations to support the winners.Oburu urged residents to register in large numbers as voters and prepare to vote, noting that in 2013, about 800,000 Nyanza residents did not turn up to cast their votes on Election Day.