Recently, there have been reports in the media on the intention by the Government of Kenya to use Public-Private Partnerships as the preferred mode of procurement for infrastructure provision in Kenya. PPP practice has been in existence in countries such as the UK since early 1990s. Therefore, this is not something new. However, it is the news on introduction of toll stations on major roads that has attracted opposition from key stakeholders. Before the public can get agitated on the proposed introduction of these new charges, I find it important to elaborate why the GoK is promoting the use of PPPs to finance these projects, and how PPPs operate. According to the National Treasury, Kenya s economy is projected to grow at 6.2 per cent in 2016, making it one of the fastest growing economies in Sub-Saharan Africa. This rapid economic growth puts enormous pressure on the existing infrastructure, leading to an increase in demand both for production and consumption purposes. Previously, the government has been the principal provider of infrastructure. As a result, however, the country s debt levels have escalated rapidly, hitting a new record of Sh3.566 trillion. The GoK now lacks sufficient funds to meet the country s infrastructure demand due to budget constraints. All this has laid the groundwork for the increased role of private sector in funding these projects in Kenya. In a PPP toll road, a public road authority offers a private sector operator an ownership concession entitling the operator to generate income from ownership for a specified concessional period lasting for between 20-30 years. Toll stations are used to generate income for repaying the private sector partner. In return, the private sector partner designs, builds, finances, and operates the road infrastructure asset, and also profits from the supply of road availability and related services generated from the asset. The duration of the partnership should be long enough to allow affordability for repayment on the part of the public sector, and also the ability of the private sector to recoup its investment profitably.Personally, I hold the opinion that the time is right for Kenya to implement PPPs. However, as with any new strategy, there exists an opportunity for risks and rewards in Kenya embracing this mode of procurement. One of the contentious issues with these contracts occurs in the negotiation phase during the process of risk allocation. This is because risks in PPPs should be allocated based on the party best able to manage them. Thus all involved parties need to know, prove and clarify their core competences and core areas, which is in no way trivial. Given that PPPs have experienced varying degrees of success especially in Africa, it is critical for the GoK and the public sector to manage effectively the downside of risks even as they promote PPP use.Karimi is a risk management expert