Top athletes yesterday received a rude shock when they were turned away from training at the Moi University School of Law track.Moi University management insisted that they either pay for the training services at the track or forget the deal all together.Former Commonwealth Games champion Silas Kiplagat, former world 800m champion Alfred Kirwa and world 800m bronze medallist Eunice Sum were among over the over 70 athletes, who were denied access to the facility. Olympics 5,000m champion Vivian Cheruiyot, multiple world 3,000m steeplechase champion Ezekiel Kemboi, world 1,500m champion Asbel Kiprop, former world cross country champion Joseph Ebuya are some of the notable names, who use the track as their training ground.The athletes said they were shocked when the security guards manning the gate denied them entry, saying that they are only effecting orders from above that no athlete should train at the facility. We came here in the morning and when we tried accessing the training ground, the guards chased us away, saying they have orders from the Deputy Vice Chancellor Prof. Nathan Ongechi that we either pay or keep off, said Kirwa.He said they had agreed with the management to have them train at the facility thrice a week after presenting a request. We had an agreement and they have the list of athletes who normally train there. We are surprised with the new turn of events, said Kirwa, who won 800m bronze medal at the 2008 Olympic Games.Sum, who is also the 2013 world 800m champion, said they can afford to pay for the training but there are hundreds of athletes who can t afford to pay for the service. Sum wondered if there are new changes after the new management took over but questioned the legality in paying to access a public utility. This is a public facility and I don t think we should pay to access it. We only abide by their regulations that we only train at the track and not to access other areas of the university. That is what we have been doing and I am amazed with this kind of action, Sum added.Over 500 athletes have been training daily at the University of Eldoret without any charges and the newly refurbished Kipchoge Keino Stadium has been branded a white elephant by athletes since they are not allowed to train at the facility. Imagine we have been training for many years at the University of Eldoret without paying a single cent and the latest move has taken us aback, said Shadrack Chirchir. Moi University public relation officer Alfred wandera said the council had resolved to charge Sh100,000 per institution per year or a fee of Sh5,000 per day. He said they will look into the athletes grievances.