SportPesa Premier League champions Tusker FC could be on the verge of losing Ugandan midfielder Hashim Sempala. Sempala who joined the brewers from Jinja-based Bul FC of Uganda in June on a two-year contract, has been trying out with Brazilian side Bangu Atletico Clube at an invitainal tournament in Vietnam, and has caught the eyes of several Vietnam League sides.This comes less than a month after the combative midfielder helped the brewers to a historic SPL league and Football Kenya Federation Cup win. Tusker technical director Charles Obiny confirmed they released the Ugandan for the trials after the South American side officially asked for his services through a letter. &ldquo;Hashim has been one of the best perfomers and most disciplined players this season and we wish him all the best in his trials&rdquo; says Obiny.He also confirmed they are in talks with another Ugandan international Ibrahim Saddam Juma who features for Ugandan side Express FC.The brewers coach Paul Nkata who is currently attending the second edition of a coaching clinic being conducted by coaches from English Premier League side Arsenal at the Kenya School of Monetary Studies echoed Obiny&rsquo;s words.&ldquo;Hashim is a leader a fighter and a role model who gives one hundred percent on the pitch, we will miss him if the deal comes through because we cannot stand in his way.&rdquo;Nkata believes Tusker will regroup ahead of the 2017 season and also do well in the A&plusmn;fri9can Football Confederation Champions League, where they expect to reach the group stage after a dismal performance from SPL sides in the last six seasons.Kenyan clubs have been knocked out in the preliminaries in recent attempts. The champions are among the top clubs that have also been linked with the services impressive Western Stima midfielder Kenneth Muguna, after the transfer window opened last week.Meanwhile Football Kenya Federation have handed clubs a one week notice to comply with CAF licensing rules.FKF President Nick Mwendwa has warned clubs that will not apply and receive the same that they will be relegated to the lower leagues. In a terse statement, Mwendwa said, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a Fifa and Caf regulation and not our own making. Clubs must obtain Caf license to participate in the top leagues and we have extended the deadline to Friday (December 16).NSL side Wazito FC awarded Caf license&ldquo;Clubs that will not apply for the same by deadline day will risk being relegated to lower leagues. If in KPL, they will be relegated to National Super League. That is how serious this matter is and I request that clubs comply with the same.&rdquo;On Tuesday, Wazito FC became the third team to receive the certificate after Ulinzi Stars and Tusker. The National Super League club has been one of the most organized sides in the Kenyan football. &ldquo;Today marks a milestone for the club. It is a clear testimony that Wazito is ready and more than willing to professionalize football management and benchmark football management standards in Kenya,&rdquo; club CEO Luthers Mokua was quoted.