Radio Africa Group has added a new station to it's already sterling list of successful radio stations.Tomorrow morning (December 22, 2016), Gukena FM will go live.The station has under it's wings the best talent and minds that the Kenyan radio fraternity boasts of.The programmes controller of Gukena FM Antony Muthoni says, "Gukena FM is different from the rest in the Kikuyu market because we will offer top music, meaning we offer quality and quantity music."Our brand doesn't not just play music but also provide well researched music and content for our listeners from politics, relationships and love. Basically we are a breathe of fresh air in this market."Antony added, "For a long time now, the Kikuyu listeners have been yearning for something professional. It is off all these factors I have mentioned, complimented by top personalities that Gukena FM provides a bouquet of the good stuff that listeners have been missing. Gukena FM will be a hit station in a short while."Meet the top presenters set to tantalize your ears starting tomorrow.Njogu Wa Njoroge - Breakfast Presenter - 6am to 10amHe needs no introduction. Njogu Wa Njoroge is a bigwig in the vernacular media space. He filled the Kasarani Stadium to the brim when he held a party to celebrate 15 years of being in the media.No one has ever done that, not even some very influential politicians. Njogu has a huge following and massive influence in the media. And he is known for being a bold, controversial and edgy personality.Njoki Mburu - Mid morning 10am to 3pmNjoki Mburu is a force to reckon with. She uses her massive influence to mentor young girls and women.She is viewed as an inspiration to many. She promises that her show will provide an avenue to do the same and as the same time provide a platform to talk about any thing that listeners want addressed about life.Sir Anthony Mithamo - Drive Show 3pm to 7pmSir Anthony will be the pilot on Gukena FM's Evening Drive show. He is a young versatile and promising radio star who will wow his audiences with his easy wit and charm.Tune in kesho for the best conversations and music on the station everyone has been waiting for.