Opposition chief Raila Odinga on Friday said President Uhuru Kenyatta presides over system ya majambazi .He said Kenya cannot afford another five years of looting, arrogance, land grabbing, corruption, brutality, bad politics and lies .Raila said another five years of Jubilee will kill this country . He spoke in Nyamira during the Kikao046 youth summit at Nyamira Primary School.Raila was accompanied by Governor John Nyagarama, Kitutu Masaba MP Timothy Bosire, West Mugirango s James Gesami, Sylvnace Osele of Kabondo Kasipul and Nyamira woman representative Alice Chae.Raila cited the massive job cuts in companies and the skyrocketing cost of living.He said when he exposed corruption at the National Youth Service, the Eurobond saga and other scandals, he was accused of playing politics and being jealous.Raila urged the youth to lead the battle to remove Jubilee from power. You have the responsibility to change this country. Decide that enough is enough and send these Jubilee thieves home. Nothing will change if youths don t invest in their future by registering as voters and voting, he said. We are at a critical stage, nine months to the election. We must decide to go right or left, water or fire. Raila denied he is defending corrupt governors and urged government agencies to investigate and prosecute the corrupt. He said Cord does not tolerate graft. Raila assured aspirants that ODM nominations will be free, fair and transparent. We have learnt of our past mistakes. Losers in nominations will have a role to play in the party and should support the winners. Nobody has a nomination certificate. Not even me or any party official, he said.Nyagrama said Uhuru is running a corrupt regime, which may lead to the collapse of this country if we don t vote them out next year. Jubilee should be send home. We are doing badly economically because of the bad choices. The only thing they are doing well is stealing and looting. He said Kenya s economy is on the brink because of massive looting.