&ldquo;&hellip;what we celebrate are cherished universal human impulses&hellip;Often what we see as our differences are only expressions of problems that can be resolved through a commitment to goodwill, love, peace and unity.&rdquo;President Uhuru Muigai Kenyatta&rsquo;s Christmas card message to Millie Odhiambo, Member of Parliament for Mbita 2017 beckons! And I finally found something more to cheer Uhuru Kenyatta for. I must say, as his employer, that I have had sparsely few nice things to say about his tenure as our president. For I have had a miserly return from his service or lack thereof. But today, I clap for him rather than flog him for going high when others, such as the predictably pugnacious Gatundu South Member of Parliament Moses Kuria, went low. Kuria&rsquo;s riposte to Millie Odhiambo&rsquo;s verbal volley aimed at the President is not even suitable for adult audiences: nor does it even belong in prison. It was a criminal verbal assault, laced with violent misogyny masquerading as and pretending to be justifiable outrage to Millie&rsquo;s insults to the president. Millie had colorfully insulted the President: mwizi (thief), fisi (hyena), mshenzi (idiot), stupid, fake president were some of the angry epithets she hurled at him. She had also asked him to begin preparing to retire to Gatundu now that the 2017 elections are in full view. Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s supporters were justifiably upset at the corrosive adjectives Millie used; they rightly found the language to be massively disagreeable to their political palates. Some demonstrated against her; justifiably. Others called for her prosecution and incarceration; unjustifiably. Others threatened her. Unjustifiably!For as disagreeable as her language was, Millie&rsquo;s is part of protected speech: this is speech that is constitutionally protected under the rubric of the bill of rights. Millie may have insulted the president but she did not incite to violence &ndash; directly or in code. Nor did she denigrate or degrade Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s essential humanity. Millie&rsquo;s was, simply stated, a robustly loud and abusive articulation of her virulent disaffection with Uhuru Kenyatta in his capacity as the president of Kenya. Others too have the right to loudly criticize her for this. But no one has the right to threaten her with violence. The fact that Millie Odhiambo insulted the president in a manner protected under the constitution and publicly approved by her Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) political leadership does not also mean that what she did was socially smart. One may have a right but go about enjoying that right unproductively. Simply because I have the right to freedom of speech does not mean that I will also always exercise that right wisely; in short, it is one&rsquo;s right to be foolish.This would be why French writer Voltaire is recorded: &ldquo;I disapprove of what you say but will defend to the death your right to say it.&rdquo; The reason that Millie&rsquo;s may not have been the smartest way to project here bile against the president is simple: it simply adds massive heat and not any light to the social cohesion conversation in Kenya. In the context of our highly combustible and fractious ethnic milieu, Millie&rsquo;s was another spear-sharp prod to the soft underbelly of our tribal divisions. This sniping jab, though constitutionally protected, does the project of nationhood in Kenya no favors; in fact, it simply stirs the bitter wells of our ethnic bile. It helps even less that this comes on the eve of the 2017 elections and that the issue at hand of electoral integrity and credibility needs more debate and conversation and less screaming and shouting. For in Kenya, we have an unhappy and unhealthy political eco-system of ethnic tension and war. This means that political affiliation to the nation is at best tenuous; frankly, we remain in a state of suspended ethno-political conflict. Worse, the institutions that should mediate and remedy this unsanitary eco-system, including the constitution, are all fragile, infirm or part of the project of tribalism. This means that they are not only grossly untrustworthy but also fundamentally incompetent to what should be their core mandate. Lastly, the citizens themselves are prisoners and perpetrators of tribalism: they are both victims and purveyors of this deleterious political and social syndrome. Hence, as Koigi wa Wamwere argued in his Siasa column last weekend, &ldquo;&hellip;when leaders are insulted, people think their communities are also insulted and need their protection.&rdquo; The tail is wagging the dog. It has been wagging the dog since Kenya&rsquo;s inception at the advent of colonial rule and continues to reign supreme: reading excerpts of retired Presbyterian Church of East Africa (PCEA) moderator Reverend John Gatu&rsquo;s memoir, Fan Into Flame, the tribalism project has in fact been historically directed and conducted via the office and person of the president.May be this is the disease that the 2017 elections should seek to cure. More likely, however, is that the forthcoming elections will cure me of my blind optimism.Ngure wa Gachanja is a human rights and democratic governance practitioner. The views expressed in this column are entirely his own and in no way represent or articulate those of any organizations he may be associated with.