Kenya Sevens head coach Innocent Simiyu intends to bring a kicking coach ahead of the Wellington and Sydney legs at the end of January. Simiyu said the kicking coach will be key as Kenya struggled to convert his tries and its a matter of concern. &ldquo;Its an area we are looking at with interest if you look at our match against Fiji in Cape Town we each scored four tries but the difference was they converted their tries and we only converted one so we must address that and convert our tries,&rdquo; added Simiyu. Another area of concern will be the kickoff reception with Kenya gifting a couple of tries to the opening two legs of the circuit. &ldquo;We must improve on that area its become imperative that you win your own kickoff and try and steal the opposition and we gave away soft tries top teams in Dubai and Cape Town&rdquo; added Simiyu. &ldquo;We also need to improve on our defense especially on the third support player covering the props. Those are the fundamental areas which we really need to get right,&rdquo; Simiyu explained. Simiyu was however, satisfied with the performance after picking up 17 points from the two opening.&ldquo;Our target is 10points for every leg so am satisfied with the way we responded in Cape Town and there is optimism that going forward into the new year we can do even better,&rdquo; he added. Simiyu should have the likes of World Sevens top try scorer and vice captain Collins Injera and star forward Oscar Ouma in contention for a place in Wellington and Sydney. &ldquo;They have stepped up their own personal training and we will have two training camps in January to see how thy have gone the two are key players for the team,&rdquo; he added Simiyu said work needs to be done on players strength and conditioning.&ldquo;We started our preparations late and it normally takes six to eights weeks to be in good shape but for the next few weeks we have time to see the players are in good condition," he added The former Kenya sevens skipper was happy with the progress made by debutants Brian Tanga, Martin Owila and Darwin Mukidza Simiyu intends to get an analyst for the side i the new year . Kenya face England , Argentina and Papua New Guinea in Wellington The team resumed training early this week and broke off yesterday and will resume next week. Wellington Sevens Draw Pool A: England, Kenya, Argentina, Papua New Guinea. Pool B: South Africa, Fiji, Australia, Japan. Pool C: New Zealand, USA, France, Samoa. Pool D: Scotland, Wales, Russia, Canada.