THE country is witnessing unwarranted grandstanding among political players on key issues that touch on the electoral process. This is not helpful and will not be helpful. It is eight months to the next General Election. It is the duty of each actor, especially the political leaders, to give Kenyans reasons to be hopeful about the elections. This will require sobriety in debates, tolerance and respect for the rule of law.In the last few weeks, the IEBC has attempted to reach out to the key players in this process. What is evident is there are issues of concern that must be addressed. However, there is no unanimity on the mechanism of addressing them.We have listened to neutral voices on this matter. We support the proposal that a team of non-partisan or bi-partisan actors be at the centre of constructive political dialogue.Main story: Raila calls for mass action over electionThe IEBC welcomed the political dialogue that led to the enactment of the Election Laws (Amendment) Act, 2016. It is over two months since the provisions of the new amendments became operational. However, the IEBC has raised concerns about some of the provisions with respect to the efficient management and delivery of credible elections.It is unfortunate that the issues raised by the IEBC have been misrepresented and taken out of context. This is despite the fact that the IEBC held a series of meetings with Parliament, media, CSOs, political parties and state actors on the implications of the new law for election management.Following events in the National Assembly and the recent debate on the Election Laws (Amendment) Act 2016, the Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs of the National Assembly invited the IEBC to provide further clarifications on the deployment of technology in voter identification and results transmission for the coming election. The Communication Authority of Kenya presented data on network coverage.It is also the duty of the IEBC to inform the public and relevant institutions when the constitutional right to vote is likely to be infringed upon by the same statutes.In each electoral cycle, the Electoral Commission has had constructive partnerships with different development partners &ndash; both multilateral and bilateral partners. We wish to set the record straight that the partnership between the IEBC and international partners is guided by the principles of national sovereignty and national ownership of the electoral process.