Kariobangi Sharks is one match away from promotion to the SportPesa Premier League after beating Ligi Ndogo 1-0. Ibrahim Kitawi scored the lone goal which also send Ligi Ndogo to relegation. Kariobangi needs one point from their last game to confirm their promotion.Nakumatt FC also enhanced their promotion chances after beating Modern Coast Rangers 2-1.At Mumias Sports Complex, hosts Vihiga United edged former Kenya Premier League outfit Nakuru All Stars 1-0, thanks to Mucheal Isabwa s all important strike.Kisumu-based outfit Palos FC defeated St. Joseph s Youth 3-0 with David Amino, Isemani Majenga and Alex Waiswa on target for the Makini School-sponsored team at Moi Stadium in Kisumu.Oserian beat Talanta 2-0 in Naivasha while Wazito defeated Mosca 2-0 at Camp Toyoyo grounds. Agro Chemicals beat KCB 2-1. Already promoted Nzoia Sugar was held to a surprise 2-2 draw by Nairobi Stima. The league concludes on Saturday with 10 matches on the card.Already, Shabana and Ligi Ndogo have been relegated while Isibania FC and Kibera Black Stars have been promoted to the National Super League. Nairobi City Stars and Ushuru who were relegated from SportPesa Premier League will play in the NSL.Elsewhere, Busia County flag bearers in the North Western Mini-League were all locked out in the preliminary round matches as the event entered Day 2 at Kanduyi Stadium in Bungoma yesterday.Maembe FC, under former AFC Leopards coach Apollo Oteba, lost 1-0 to Superstar of Bungoma and Lugari s Marakusi FC. They managed a 2-0 victory over the other Busia side, Kotur FC but this was too little, too late. Apart from their 0-2 loss to Maembe, Kotue were also hammered 7-0 by Superstar before going down 3-1 to Marakusi to bow out of contention.Aboloi were beaten 3-1 by Misikhu and 2-0 by Lugari s Maturu. They earned a walk-over against Pan Paper from Lugari, who were disqualified for fielding two ineligible players, one of them featuring for Sony Sugar. Oteba said the undoing for Busia teams is that they lack sponsors and equipment. He appealed to MPs the area to use part of CDF funds to sponsor clubs representing their constituencies in various leagues.FKF North Western branch chairman Caleb Amwayi expressed dismay at the elimination of teams from Busia County, saying they were the pre-tournament favourites.