The on-going standoff between the Kenya Railways and the civil society and conservation groups over the Nairobi National Park may delay the beginning of the second phase of the standard gauge railway.Several conservationists and the civil society groups have submitted requests for a fresh environmental impact study to Nema, saying the current report does not capture the true extent of the standard gauge railway s impact on the Nairobi National Park.The railway is expected to enter the park near the East Gate, cross over a 6km stretch of the savannah area on 18m high T-frame girders. The SGR will exit the park near the Maasai Gate, and then turn west to Tuala and Ongata Rongai.An environmental impact assessment study conducted earlier this year states that the railway will have minimal impact on animals and vegetation in the park. The report, however, seems to rely on previous research on railway infrastructure s impact on wildlife habitats and doesn t state the specific impact of SGR on the Nairobi National park.Some of the effects the report notes include change in movement, social behaviour and general behaviour of wildlife due to noise pollution and introduction of underpasses in wildlife dispersal areas. Construction of the railway on concrete beams rather than on an embankment that would have divided the park into two, and the installation of noise deflectors are some of the measures proposed to mitigate effects of the railway on the park.Conservationists however say Kenya Railways and the Kenya Wildlife are not telling the truth about the effects of the railway on the wildlife habitat. The Kenya Coalition for Wildlife Conservation and Management says the environmental impact assessment process was not open and transparent. They also raise issue with the way the public discussions on the project were conducted. The language of discussion was English and Swahili while most the community is composed of illiterate and semi illiterate Maasai populace and no effort was made to translate the proceeding in the Maa language despite our requests, the organisation says in its formal request to NEMA to trash the EIA report.Sydney Kuntai, the organisation s chairman claims the firm contracted to conduct the EIA did not do much groundwork but relied heavily on a previous report on the same issue. No feasibility study was done. If it was done, they would have realised that Rongai is a high density area that will prove to be problematic. How do you compensate all those people? Quntai says.Community groups under the Kenya Coalition for Wildlife Conservation and Management say they will not cede land for SGR, arguing that the railway is likely to escalate human-wildlife conflicts in the area. We feel that as a community, we were not adequately consulted. As a matter of fact, we learned about the SGR 2A project when the Chinese contractors invaded our land without our prior consent, they said.Okiya Omtatah, a civil rights activist says in his submission to Nema that the EIA ignored the law that bars any development in protected areas.Omtatah says the decision to exploit the national park must be ratified by Parliament. The decision to allow the SGR project through the Nairobi National Park is a nullity in law, as totally no developments can be approved in the Nairobi National Park, Omtatah says.Omtatah further says the one month period taken to conduct the study was inadequate for effective stakeholder participation by members of the public and other interested groups.Dr John Musingi, an environmental expert at the University of Nairobi questions the decision to take the railway through the national park when it can pass through the edge. Atanas Maina, Kenya Railways managing director defends the EIA saying it was carried out in accordance to the law. We publicised the event for everyone to attend and give their views, Maina says. We have done what the law requires of us. If there are people with views about the project, the government is ready to listen and even bring them on board to monitor the construction. Maina says the problem about the Nairobi National Park is not the SGR but private individuals who have encroached on the park s dispersal areas, and the quarrying activities taking place in the park.The KWS chairman Dr Richard Leakey too supports the EIA report, saying the proposed route will have minimal impact on both animals and plants in the park, except during the 18-month construction period.Leakey said during a recent public forum that the savannah plains where the railway passes through are not critical areas for endangered species except for rhinos, which have sizeable territories in which they roam.Conservationists however urge the government to find alternative routes for the railway.Akshay Vishwanath, the acting chairman of the Friends of Nairobi National Park calls for a solution that is agreeable to everyone, saying what happens in the Nairobi National Park will set a precedent for what happens to other parks where the railway passes through.