All the ingredients for a bad 2017 election are in a cauldron simmering. By August next year, it will be on a steady churn, bubbling and boiling over. I say this because the recipe for disaster is being jointly written by the opposition and the government. On the part of the government, they are doing the un-African thing of taunting others with their feasts. An old saying goes: The god of provision smiles wryly at those who eat alone, then snatches their bowls. As their barbecue sizzles, causing the opposition to salivate, the government also appears to be preparing an elections menu that is unsettling the other camp. The opposition suspects that government is using their majority seats to stew victory for themselves through the amendment of electoral laws. This suspicion is not unfounded. On the opposition&rsquo;s side, there is the usual notorious Chief-Chef, highly trained in the Cuisine of Chaos. He is known for brewing trouble well before the poll date. He gets into the kitchen just in time to concoct disastrous electoral broths. Unfortunately for him, the predictability of his meals sells him out. Year in, year out he stirs up the same recipe, same ingredients, same disastrous results. As his concoctions are predictable, so are they simple: A strong pungent potion made out of prophesied rigging, calls to mass action and forced coalitions. The intention, come 2017, is to feast on this broth with a fresh loaf of bread, worst case scenario, nusu mkate (a half-a-loaf) will do. This morbidly expensive meal will cost lives. The stakes are high for both the government and opposition camps. Presidential aspirants are at the &lsquo;do-or-die&rsquo; stage. Betrayal and underhand deals are in the offing. The Chief-Chef has gone so far as to say that unregistered youth should be caned into getting their voter registration cards &mdash; desperate democracy. At the lower levels, bitter politicians are terrified of being locked out of the party nominations. And now that &lsquo;party hopping&rsquo; is outlawed, they are the ones who will be running around the counties with their most evil, last-ditch schemes, contributing to the instigation of fracas.Lastly, and again both for the government and the opposition, the political discourse has particularly degenerated ahead of the polls. People in government and opposition kitchens, from the sous-chefs down to the dishwashers, have reached a new level of indecency. They are running their mouths rampantly. While it is a given that in every election year the tempo heightens in terms of insults hurled, and accusations coined, this year takes the cake. Politicians and wannabe politicians have deteriorated speedily from the ridiculous, to the distasteful to the despicable. The foul-mouthed bunch seem to be engaging in a repugnant competition in obscenity. The spewing of the Kurias, the Millies, the Migunas and the likes only sets the stage for an antagonistic election season, and fuels animosity. History doesn&rsquo;t help either. While 2007 stands out as the country&rsquo;s worst electoral year, the truth is that we have seldom had a peaceful election in this country since the advent of multi-partyism in 1991. Like clockwork, in 1992 and 1997, there was violence. In 2002, 350 deaths were reported within two months. The 2007 election went down in history as the worst yet. Pockets of violence and deaths were reported even in the largely peaceful 2013 elections. Caught between a selfish opposition and a self-engrossed government, it is up to Kenyans to negate the culture of cyclical electoral violence. The meals being cooked in the high political kitchens are not being prepared for Kenyans. Kenyans are the meal. In other words, we are being cooked.