When Deputy President William Ruto branded the National Super Alliance a tribal outfit, I stood up to listen in anticipation. The presidency was acknowledging that it had panicked. NASA is winning converts as fast as Jubilee&rsquo;s chaos is spreading across the country in its election of interim party officials.The claim that NASA was a tribal outfit was erroneous because DP Ruto was inverting the image of Jubilee as an ethnic duopoly against an imaginary opponent &mdash; just like killing the baby at birth. NASA is a mutating political construct, whose structure isn&rsquo;t known to many, including Ruto himself. The Deputy President is not privy to what he isn&rsquo;t entitled to know about NASA. But his feeble labelling of this outfit as an employment bureau for opposition leaders is a soundbite of clinical creativity. It is meant to end Jubilee&rsquo;s nightmare of being hounded out of office by an entity it can&rsquo;t understand.He accused NASA of plotting to change the Constitution to create jobs for a few leaders, as if Jubilee has created many jobs for Kenyans. This is the weakest jab Ruto has ever directed at the opposition. For the four years it has been in power, Jubilee has not only failed to provide jobs for hundreds of thousands of unemployed youths but also led to companies either retrenching or closing shop.It&rsquo;s incumbent upon Kenyans not to fall prey to consuming political gimmickry, especially ahead of the election year. It is imponderable that a government can launch projects that aren&rsquo;t budgeted for, but still insist it isn&rsquo;t faking them. Ruto knows he can sell a fad such as name-calling NASA without anticipating calls to substantiate. But I also think politicians around the presidency are increasingly vulnerable to being fed all manner of social media chit-chat as facts. For now, the fact is that the structure of NASA is still not known. The public glimpses of a possible structure are opposition political parties and other organised Kenyans joining to form this behemoth. There is no denying that NASA has caught the imagination of Kenyans who feel betrayed by the Jubilee administration. That then is the nightmare Jubilee must confront. NASA can be misunderstood in many ways but it for sure, not tribal as Jubilee.The fact that NASA is coalescing around resolving bad governance and its possible leadership spread isn&rsquo;t comparable to Jubilee&rsquo;s cut-and-paste sealing of TNA-URP ethnic bloc on the Jubilee Party. If there is any evidence required, it is the retention of the original the TNA-URP hegemony in the initial Jubilee Party of Kenya officials, and the uncomfortable plastering of the ethnic walls with the likes of Raphael Tuju.Ruto&rsquo;s tribal catcalls aside, the idea that NASA is led by tribal kingpins flies in the face of its stated position: That NASA is a people&rsquo;s movement. But the presidency, being an avid consumer and producer of social media content, isn&rsquo;t immune to influencing and being influenced by it.For a while now, a Photoshopped social media artistic impressions of the presumed NASA leadership have been doing the rounds with various variations. That could be the handiwork of people in the presidency and must have informed Ruto&rsquo;s premature outburst. Not that he would&rsquo;ve believed it to be a true representation, but it provided ready political fodder to be fed to an unsuspecting public.Legitimising such ridiculous impressions as the NASA structure has the twin effect of deflecting attention from Jubilee&rsquo;s tribal 2013 poll and appointments heritage, and taunting NASA to jump into hysterical acts of prematurely surrendering its surprise weapon.