Leading shoemaker, BATA Shoe Company (K) Ltd, has partnered with the Kenya Wildlife Service to support the conservation of lions.Through a conservation campaign #Footprintsforthewild, the KWS&ndash;Bata partnership will strive to control human-carnivore conflict by collaring lions, a move resonating well with the long-standing Safari brand and supports tourism. All Bata stores will be decorated with messages telling consumers that whenever they buy Safari products a percentage of the money will be donated for conservation.The funds raised in the KWS-Bata partnership will be used to buy GPS monitored collars. One lion is usually collared per pride. Only 60 lions have been collared in Kenya.According to the head of Captive Wildlife Management, David Ndere, one collar costs Sh300,000.KWS director general Kitili Mbathi described the partnership as "exciting" and will drive more visitors to the park.He spoke at the KWS Impala Observation Point at the Nairobi National Park when endorsing the partnership.The service has been grappling with less visitors even as the government proposes the standard gauge railway to traverse through it, a move opposed by conservationists."There has been a spate of lions leaving through the park. Collars will help us track them. It may be necessary translocating young males looking for new territory,&rdquo; Kitili said.Bata Africa president Alberto Ericco said he and his team had to find a solution when lions sneaked from the park injuring people.&ldquo;I was not aware of wildlife integration that is so close to the capital city, coming from Asia. I know wildlife live with human being and something must be done,&rdquo; he said.Ericco urged other companies to support conservation.KWS got Sh3 million as a result of the partnership in form of cash.The partnership will also see Bata rehabilitate Mt Longonot National Park trails, the Nairobi Safari Walk benches and development of story boards at the Ivory Burning Site at the Nairobi National Park. They will also carry out a joint marketing campaign at 136 Bata stores, local and international tourism exhibitions and periodic joint conservation activities such as the World Lion Day celebrations.The KWS&ndash;Bata partnership rides on the long history of the Bata Safari Boot, which was inspired by the early safari expeditions to observe and record wildlife and landscapes particularly in Africa.In the late 1960s, Bata developed an African outdoor brand. It was in the same period that the Acacia tree and lion were incorporated to the logo. &ldquo;Safari&rdquo; brand was launched in Kenya in 1963 and quickly became one of the country&rsquo;s best-selling shoes, popular with locals and tourists.It proved capable of withstanding the toughest conditions of the African savannah. In the 1990s, Safari was re-designed to more trendy designs with the introduction of new collections. Africa is home to most of the world&rsquo;s lion populations.However, all across Africa, lion populations are declining at an alarming rate. The African lion was classified as vulnerable by the International Union for Conservation of Nature in 2010.In Kenya, lions live in a number of protected areas, with a large population in the parks. Over the years, the lion population has dropped from 2,749 in 2002 to 1,970 according to the latest estimate.Kenya loses about 15 lions every year with most deaths attributed to conflict with people. A few deaths are attributed to disease and poaching for skin, teeth and claws.