Discontent is still rumbling in the judiciary over its medical insurance scheme.On November 11, the Kenya Judicial Staff Association wrote to the Chief Justice, complaining that medical cover for Category D staff had been reduced.It claimed members no longer have access to 24-hour health services, specialist doctors, maternity, dental and optical services. The association said members have to pay in cash since the Jubilee Insurance scheme was cancelled. Category D covers 82 per cent of the 4,200 judiciary staff. On October 5, judiciary chief registrar Anne Amadi denied claims staff were unhappy with the change of health cover provider.She said the judiciary withdrew its medical insurance scheme with Jubilee Insurance for all judges and junior staff over alleged misuse of funds.Amadi said the health scheme would be re-tendered competitively, but there is still no scheme in place. Tempers are also boiling on the WhatsApp group run by judges. These are some of the judges posts: We are better off in Jubilee [insurance] party at this rate. I took my daughter to a hospital today and was outrightly told that for over two months they have not been accepting Jubilee cards. It did not matter that the case was potentially an emergency. Something needs to be done urgently. Pole to all who have suffered inconveniences. I also had to wait for about half hour at Gertrudes awaiting authorisation from Jubilee. My daughter could not be treated at Pandya Hospital for dental case using the Jubilee card. I had to pay an expensive X-ray and consultation. Can judiciary refund me? It is so frustrating to go to hospital and get turned away. I suggest that the new scheme for judges should be de-linked so that we are not subjected to such embarrassment in future. In 2015-16, Jubilee was paid Sh648 million for health insurance for the 4,200 judiciary staff and their eligible dependants.For 2016-17, Sh850 million was budgeted but Jubilee said this was not enough as it had made a loss in the previous year and another 1,000 clerical staff were joining the health scheme. The insurance firm billed Sh196 million for July and August under a temporary extension. At this rate, the healthcare would have cost Sh1.2 billion for a whole year.