When it comes to capitalism, we Africans are great adopters of US retail trends - look at how we latched on to the commercialisation of religious holy days (now holidays) such as Easter, Eid, Diwali and Christmas.I won t even mention Valentine s Day and now it seems we are taking on more.On Facebook this year, I noticed many of my friends across Africa observing the American Thanksgiving Day. In the US, this is a public holiday celebrated on the fourth Thursday of November. It originated as a harvest festival first marked by colonists and Native Americans in 1621, just before the great genocidal landgrab that gave us the modern USA.Why Africans who were also colonised and victims of similar vicious land grabs would want to celebrate this day voluntarily, is beyond me, but then again, in the words of Nikolai Gogol, we all have our little failings.The latest fad from the US to sweep across Africa is Black Friday. In the US this day of big deals and promotions for shoppers is always the first Friday after Thanksgiving (November 25 ) and also marks the start of Christmas shopping.One commentator sees it as, a classic example of self-inflicted cultural colonialism. The motive is unashamedly commercial and that, in turn, means it represents blatant exploitation of the consumer at its worst. Here in South Africa, Checkers supermarket was the first to get into the hype of Black Friday back in 2014. It went off like a bomb and since then other retailers have cashed in. As a result, this year if like me you had temporarily forgotten it was Black Friday and tried to (a) reach people in their offices and (b) go to a shopping mall to buy an item - you would have been thoroughly frustrated.Of course if you have sour grapes about the whole thing you can always claim as someone did that Black Friday promotions are a thinly disguised attempt to get rid of old stock. As far as I could make out, the only people at work on that Friday were people who earn their living from retail or retail related jobs and those employees who could not afford to take any more leave days. The rest of urban South Africa was fighting to get into the mall or were already inside and scrambling for the items that were on promotion.The scenes outside a mall that I saw reminded me of a herd of wildebeest focussed on crossing the Mara River during the Great Migration.Black Friday works in SA where many people, other than public servants who get paid on the 15th, are paid on the 25th. In Kenya, most people are paid after the 27th - maybe retailers want to lobby employers about that otherwise for many there will be too much month at the end of the money.Now I wonder if Africans will start celebrating Kwanzaa or will that be too much on top of Christmas?Follow me on Twitter @MwangiGithahu