The recent visit by the President to the Mt Kenya region, was an eye opener on the resource allocation inequalities between the two regions controlled by the two Jubilee principals. In short, if the President were to make a three day tour of the Rift Valley, he would not be doing much. He might actually get bored and return to State House having only addressed crowds. There would be fewer roads to open and even few facilities or equipment to commission. The truth is that while William Ruto has been deeply engrossed in his long-range campaign for 2022 and defending Jubilee from &lsquo;Vitendawili&rsquo;, he has left behind the development agenda of his backyard. WHILE THE RIFT VALLEY SLEPTI recently visited the Southern Rift and travelled through the newly tarmacked Roret-Kebeneti-Kona road. The 15km road, first constructed in the late 1940s to link Bureti, Belgut and Sondu, had been in a pathetic state and has never been tarmacked in the 70 years of its existence. Despite passing through an area of great tea and other food production, ardent pleas to then area MP and later Kericho Senator Charles Keter to fix the road, came to nothing. It was not until he resigned to join the cabinet that the gods began to smile on the people of the area. Speaking to those I met on the way, they averred that the road came after severely arm-twisting the Government into constructing it. The Senate by-elections had threatened to splash some egg on the DP&rsquo;s face, and so the goodies had to roll. If it had not been for that, there would be nothing! There are two other roads are being constructed thanks to a firm deal reached with the DP to secure his political fortunes in the South Rift. Everyone seemed happy &ndash; until it dawned to Ruto&rsquo;s support base that Central Kenya has been quietly developing massive development projects while they slept. When the president made a whirlwind tour of his Central Kenya backyard, he commissioned four major regional road projects, commissioned medical equipment or works in five major hospitals &ndash; Murang&rsquo;a, Nyeri, Kerugoya, Othaya and Nanyuki, commissioned the Kerugoya water and sewerage plant, launched the ultra-modern Chaka market and pledged nearly a billion to support of various projects. His deputy was present all along- with his political future possibly occupying his mind more than the goodies being handed down. Then the president handed yet another Coffee debt waiver, this time amounting to Sh. 2.3 billion. That is what baffled many as it made it look like the president&rsquo;s region was getting more than its fair share of the cake.WEALTH IN AGRICULTUREThe two Jubilee principals represent arguably the two largest agricultural producer regions in Kenya &ndash; Mt Kenya and Rift Valley. If you look closely, the communities that live there produce quantifiably significant agricultural produce that goes to feed much of Kenya&rsquo;s domestic food consumption. Everything from the potatoes that will be on your lunch menu to the milk on your breakfast table or Ugali at dinner. The bulk of the maize, wheat, fruits, vegetables, meat and a variety of non-food agricultural produce like cut flowers come from here. Nearly all of Kenya&rsquo;s tea and coffee also come from these two regions. Coffee and tea, as well as cut flowers, are the most significant agricultural export from Kenya. Statistics as at December 2015, show that just three counties Nandi, Kericho and Bomet produce the bulk of the Kenya&rsquo;s tea (46% ) while seven Central Kenya counties (Kiambu, Murang&rsquo;a, Meru, Tharaka Nithi, Nyeri, Kirinyaga and Embu) counties produced 40%. Other counties (Kisii, Nyamira, Kakamega, Trans-Nzoia and Nakuru) produced the balance (14%). Economically, tea contributes a massive 26% of total export earnings which translates to about 4% of the GDP. (You could likewise say that three counties contribute 2% of the GDP). The hard work of thousands of farmers has made Kenya the world&rsquo;s largest tea exporter (22% of global exports). Well over 90% of the production is in the hands of hundreds of thousands of small-scale farmers. Nandi alone has about 85,000 small-holder farmers and whose earnings support about four times that number of people. Nandi County has almost 600km of roads but less than 15% is tarmacked despite its farmers exporting about 800 million kgs of tea a year.THE CURSE OF CASH CROPSTea has had little or no subsidy leaving tea farmers in a constant state of indebtedness and massive poverty. The bulk of tea production is in the areas Jubilee could consider as its strongholds, but the Jubilee government has followed the traditions of the other governments in neglecting the tea sector. Farmers I interviewed stated that tea earnings could not sustain them. They needed income from other sources so as to meet the basic cost of producing tea. They only live for the bonus paid end-year and which is coming under increasing pressure from all manner of deductions including the debts that have accrued along the way.THE LONG ROAD OF TEATea in Kenya began small. Two brothers G.W. and W.H. Caine planted the first tea crop in Limuru in 1903. They had been tea planters in Manipur, India from whence they brought the crop. Hugh Partington the first DC at Kericho, planted a few bushes outside his house and they showed great promise. Limuru and Kericho would soon produce sufficient quantities for commercial exploitation. Tom Rutter of the Brooke Bond in Calcutta, established the first tea factory &ndash; Mabroukie in Limuru in 1924 before commercial production was taken up by Finlay Muir in Kericho about the same year. Showing greater promise, Brooke Bond now moved to Kericho and planted thousands of acres of tea as did the Buret Tea Company. The first sale of Kenyan tea in the London auction was done on January 18, 1928 by tea brokers S.S. Smith at the traditional auction house on Mincing Lane. Fetching good prices, the Brooke Bond and African Highlands (Finlay Muir) firms expanded production. By 1931 Kenya was producing one million kgs. of tea and despite the onset of the Great Depression, expansion continued thanks to (very) cheap African labour and a government that listened to (settler) farmers. By 1934 production had reached 2.5 million kgs. 95% from Kericho. All along, production was held in European hands with Africans strictly forbidden to plant. By 1956, the first Africans began to grow the crop on small-holder plots in an effort to expand production into rural areas. Today, production is in the hands of hundreds of thousands of small-scale farmers producing hundreds of millions of kilograms 95% of which is destined for export. Tea farmers however, are not a very happy lot. THE PROBLEM CHILD OF THE BEVERAGESCoffee however is emerging as the problem child of the beverages. Like tea, coffee production was also kept closely in European hands with some of the first Africans trying to grow the crop facing nasty experiences. Coffee was first introduced to Kenya in 1899 by French Catholic priests and grown in Nairobi&rsquo;s present-day Lavington area. The crop whose origin is neighbouring Ethiopia, was introduced to Kenya from Reunion islands and immediately began to prosper in the early days of colonial Kenya. It brought out every settler&rsquo;s dream of making it big in Kenya. Practically every farmer in the White Highlands had put his hands on coffee &ndash; ranging from those at the Mt Kenya Region to those in the highlands west of Kenya. Disappointments were also big (remember Karen Blixen?). Vagaries of war, the Great Depression and acute coffee diseases saw production fluctuate but even then, coffee was Kenya&rsquo;s largest export earner for many years. Today, coffee exports account for less than 3% of Kenya&rsquo;s total exports compared to tea at 26%. Coffee however has had more subsidy than tea. Are we throwing good money after bad? A MASSIVE RIP-OFF?It must be noted that the direct sale of Kenya tea and coffee in London during colonial times reduced the variance between the producer and consumer prices. This was true until the eve of Independence, when, in November 1956, Kenya established its own tea auction to rival that of London. It was at this point that the variances between producer and consumer prices of tea began to widen massively. Plantation farmers who owned consumer brands, considered the auction the best place to expand their profits. They simply sent their buyers there who depressed the buying prices but once the tea reached their destination (mainly London), the shelve prices would greatly swell ensuring the plantation owner had his handsome profits. Unilever for instance, which bought out Brooke Bond, is the owner of the Lyons Tea brand which sells tea at far greater prices than what the auction in Mombasa fetches. Unilever is one of the firms that controls the entire value chain of tea &ndash; from farm to cup and that is how they make their massive profits. Finlay&rsquo;s is another. Where the control of the value chain was broken, by nationalism or independence, they ensured that they controlled the upstream market.The auction, which moved from Nairobi to Mombasa in 1969, is today the world&rsquo;s largest by volume. Several regional countries sell their teas through Mombasa. The auction system, a pillar of market driven commodity selling, may however be a part of the large problem facing the tea (and coffee) industry in Kenya and the region. The Jubilee Government, like the others, is totally blind to this.DETRIMENTAL VARIANCESToday, there is a massive variance between the producer and consumer prices in certain world markets. A tea farmer in Kenya for instance, earns some Sh. 14 ($0.14) for a kilogram of delivered tea. Half of that goes to the labour cost of picking the tea while the balance is swallowed up by inputs such as fertilizer, chemicals, farm labour (other than picking), taxes and miscellaneous overheads. Generally, the farmer awaits the bonus which could take his earnings to an average of Sh. 38. Processed tea is sold in the Mombasa Auction which gives indicator prices of what the farmer will be paid. Most teas fetch anything from $2 and $3 a kilogram from which the factory will deduct its costs including transportation, processing, labour, packaging and other overheads. After paying the farmer, the local and national taxes also paid and then we call it a day. The story however, does not quite end there. The retail market in Europe fetches up to &pound;30 a kilogram (Sh. 3,800). Coffee at the Starbucks in London would set you back &pound;5. What if the farmer would just earn 20% of this prices? We would possibly end poverty as we know it. A milk farmer earns Sh. 25 to Sh. 30 per kilo of raw milk delivered. As a percentage of the shelf price of milk, the farmer earns about 25%. Buying maize at Sh. 2,500 per 90kg bag would give the farmer roughly about 40% of the shelf-price of maize flour not counting the by-products. You could argue that in the local market, the tea farmer fetches about 20% of the shelve price of the local tea. But that is true for only just 5% of the total production. It is in the exported amounts that the problem arises. Compared to shelf prices, his earnings drop to a single percentage point!DOUBLE EXPLOITATIONWhile trying to purchase some tea leaves to beat the biting London cold, I walked to the supermarket chain Marks &amp; Spencer where I came across &lsquo;Kenya Tea&rsquo;. Naturally elated, I quickly reached for the pack without even checking the prices. I felt the patriotic warmth of consuming tea from home. However, a quick glance at the prices and a quick calculation of the KES equivalent, I was shocked beyond measure. I found myself slowly returning it to the shelf. This was not because I could not afford the tea but because I felt that in buying the tea, I was exploiting myself twice &ndash; having sold cheap and buying it back expensive. DEBT WAIVERSThe Sh. 2.3 billion Coffee debt waiver, has not gone down well with many particularly in the tea growing areas. Begs the question. Do the perennial coffee debt waivers have something to do with the geographical origin of the coffee or is it because, somehow, coffee has managed to make itself a politically strategic crop? I don&rsquo;t have the answers but I can say that if tea became a politically strategic crop, perhaps somebody will listen. With Raila Odinga ever more embracing resource nationalism as his campaign tool, Jubilee must watch out, they may have opened a new front for him to chip away its popularity in their base.