In a shocking turn of events, the Ministry of Transport in August said the Kenya Railways Corporation would build Phase 2A of the standard gauge railway right through the Nairobi National Park. At a press conference in September, the ministry flanked by the Kenya Wildlife Service, the National Land Commission and other institutions, defended the decision, claiming this was inevitable due to economic and logistical considerations. The contradiction could not have been more glaring. In April, Transport PS Irungu Nyakera had announced that all plans to pass through the park had been dropped. At the time, the KWS had strongly opposed the proposal.The law requires that an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment be done prior to any major project. However, the KRC and the ministry&rsquo;s casual handling of this issue shows they only consider it a mere &lsquo;rubber-stamping&rsquo; exercise. A court injunction successfully obtained by concerned parties from the National Environment Tribunal stopped all activities relating to Phase 2A of the SGR until the case was fully heard and determined. While the KRC and its ESIA consultants cancelled many of the public consultations scheduled, they still went ahead with a few public hearings despite the injunction. This raises serious questions about the adequacy of the public consultation process.Even more problematic is the manner in which the few consultations were done. No prior information was released to the public and so, the attendees got the information for the first time during the meetings. During the so-called consultations, there was no opportunity for question-and-answer sessions nor a discussion to properly interrogate these plans, suggest alternatives, or generally share views. The whole exercise was done in English and a bit of Kiswahili, which made it difficult for the semi-literate community members, on whose land the railway will be built once it exits the park, to follow the proceedings. It must be noted that as yet, no minutes of these consultations have been released publicly.Despite the injunction and without adequate consultations among the players, the consultants and the KRC went ahead to finalise the ESIA report and publicly released it towards the end of October. The mischief in the process continues as the KRC and its consultants called for a public hearing to comment on the ESIA on December 8. Less than a week&rsquo;s notice was given, and no proper information on the exact venue of the hearing was provided.The bulky, 300-page ESIA document is diabolical from a technical standpoint &mdash; poorly written, lacking many specific details and biased towards supporting a single preferred alignment. The most glaring deficiency in the ESIA is the lack of consideration of an alignment that avoids the NNP entirely. The report does not also adequately identify all the potential ecological impacts of the proposed railway. Many of the obvious and likely impacts that should be considered were either left out entirely or covered superficially.Further, using examples of existing railways through national parks, both in Kenya and overseas, as a justification to approve the railway through NNP is illogical and unscientific. The ESIA should explain that in all the examples given, the railway was built prior to the area becoming a national park. There is nowhere in the world where major railways were built within nationally significant parks after the area was declared a national park. In addition, the ESIA makes no mention of consultation with recognised global experts on the impacts of habitat fragmentation and the ecology of linear infrastructure, such as roads and rail.In many sections of the document, the data that was used to make decisions such as wildlife species occurrence and movement data is sparse and unreliable. Indeed, some sections of the ESIA read more like advertising for the project, rather than an unbiased, scientific decision-making tool. It should therefore worry all Kenyans when the proponent guarantees that the adverse environmental impacts identified will be mitigated through the designs included in the ESIA.As such, the government should delay making a decision on the route for the SGR&rsquo;s next phase until a comprehensive ESIA is undertaken that includes an alignment that completely avoids NNP. The ESIA should include expert input, adopt globally recognised best practice and reflect global scientific understanding of the impacts of railways on wildlife and their dispersal areas, and the effectiveness of mitigation measures. In such a critical matter affecting our heritage, no shortcuts should be taken. Good sense ought to prevail and the most suitable route for the railway sought.