The supreme function of statesmanship is to provide against preventable evils. In seeking to do so, it encounters obstacles which are deeply rooted in human nature.One is that by the very order of things such evils are not demonstrable until they have occurred: at each stage in their onset there is room for doubt and for dispute whether they be real or imaginary. . . . the besetting temptation of all politics to concern itself with the immediate present at the expense of the future. - Enoch Powell, British MP, the &lsquo;Rivers of Blood&rsquo; speech, April 20, 1968THE spectacle of Coalition for Reforms and Democracy legislators impeding access to the Chamber of Parliament of both the Speaker and the Mace &ndash; the Speaker&rsquo;s procession &ndash; during Wednesday&rsquo;s tumultuous Special Sitting may well be unprecedented in Commonwealth Parliamentary history.Cord&rsquo;s &ndash; and especially the Orange Democratic Movement&rsquo;s &ndash; disdain for the Jubilee administration is well known. With the events of Parliament&rsquo;s special sittings on Tuesday and Thursday this loathing has become in your face explicit. And truly frightening. The first four years of Jubilee&rsquo;s first term have been replete with Cord-ODM attempts to de-legitimize President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s victory in 2013 and all that has followed, good, bad and neutral. But it has taken the two special sittings to clarify the depth of pure paranoia and loathing that informs the old Luo versus Kikuyu rivalry in this country and the unending titanic struggle for power between the Odingas and the Kenyattas that will enter its 51st year in 2017. Mbita MP Millie Odhiambo Mabona distilled this disrespect in her &ldquo;fake&rdquo; President outburst in Parliament&rsquo;s precincts on Tuesday that was shared widely on social media across all political divides by a shocked nation. It delighted the Cord faithful and appalled the JP strongholds and people who do not feel that strongly against Uhuru, even if they did not vote for him, for instance in Kisii and Coast. The sight of Speaker Justin Muturi and the Mace being blocked from the Chamber on Tuesday underscored the Opposition&rsquo;s (but particularly ODM&rsquo;s) contempt for Jubilee&rsquo;s authority and legitimacy. At the end of the day, it was a festival of disrespect. The Mace is the symbol of the House&rsquo;s authority and of representation. The Speaker is elected by Members of Parliament and is the chief officer and highest authority of the House. But Cord unilaterally long ago damned Muturi as partisan &ndash; the office is politically impartial and must be. The Speaker is elected by MPs. He or she keeps order and calls MPs to take the floor, or speak.Blocking both Muturi and the Mace signaled Cord&rsquo;s near-total disregard for both Houses of Parliament in which they are the Minority. This riotous assembly was incredibly bad behavior. Knowing they did not have the numbers, they did everything possible to ensure there would be no vote, the majoritarian principle be damned.It was a victory of prevarication, procrastination and sheer bloody mindedness. MINORITY WILL HAVE THEIR SAY, MAJORITY THEIR WAY?And it bodes ill for the 12th General Election scheduled for August 8, 2017. Paralysing business in the National Assembly for more than two hours to protest a Special Sitting called by Speaker Muturi was an act of lawlessness. The House had been recalled from Recess to debate the laws that will govern and guide the General Election. Kisumu West MP Olago Aluoch, a lawyer, primly pronounced, &ldquo;The gazette time for this sitting was 9.30am. It&rsquo;s way past that time&rdquo;.This was disingenuous beyond belief. Aluoch spoke as if the inordinate delay had been caused by external forces beyond anyone&rsquo;s control.While these tactics are tailor-made for street protests, they do not belong in the National Assembly. It is doubtful that there is a modern-day precedent in the history of Commonwealth parliaments for Tuesday and Thursday&rsquo;s events.The parliamentary principle is that the Minority will have their say but the Majority will have its way. Taking the debate outside Parliament the way Cord did on both Tuesday and Thursday &ndash; including to court &ndash; is pernicious. Cord wants the General Election to be based only on ICTs and for there to be no option of manual tallying or transmission. The 2017 edition of the General Election is the 12th in a row since the Independence poll of May 1963. This means all 11 previous elections were manually tallied, including the 2002 event that ended Kanu&rsquo;s 39-year run in power and buried Uhuru Kenyatta on Kanu&rsquo;s last presidential ticket under Mwai Kibaki&rsquo;s landslide victory on the National Rainbow Coalition ticket.The 2002 election has been widely dubbed as Kenya&rsquo;s most free, fair and transparent. Blocking manual backup on Election Day is a high-risk venture. What happens if the ICTs fail in a Cord stronghold such as Kibera? What happens if they fail in multiple other places, including Jubilee strongholds? SPECTACLE OF HOME OF MPESA SEEKING IMPERFECT POLLING ICTsThe spectacle of the land of Mpesa struggling (where have we been for the last four long years?) to acquire General Election ICTs that could well crash on Election Day for any number of reasons &ndash; including perfectly legitimate ones &ndash; is ridiculous, to say the least. In fact, why not vote by Mpesa, whose database is more secure even than that of the Registrar of Births and Deaths? Safaricom&rsquo;s servers are in China, courtesy of Huawei. Muturi extended the Special Sitting to Thursday and Cord took their seats in the Chamber, only to walk out. Jubilee passed the amendments to the Election Laws anyway and Cord dashed straight to court.A CHANGED INTERNATIONAL CONTEXTKenya&rsquo;s 2017 General Election will be held in a regional and international context that is very different from both 2007 and 2013. In the US, the Barack Obama Administration will have been replaced by Donald Trump&rsquo;s, in the UK David Cameron is long gone and the UK&rsquo;s Theresa May is no crusader as far as African crises go. The world community is fixated on the crisis in South Sudan, where the conditions are now said to exist for an incipient genocide. If anything goes drastically wrong in Kenya, whether pre- or post-election, the world could well be as slow to act to intervene as it was at the time of the Rwanda Genocide of April 1994. In his book on that calamity, Shake Hands With the Devil: The Failure of Humanity in Rwanda, the then Lieutenant-General Rom&eacute;o Dallaire of the Canadian Forces described powerfully how the world remained indifferent as the Genocide took its terrible toll. The hardening of positions in the political arena this week in the immediate pre-Christmas period and ahead of an all-important General Election year is ominous indeed. Cord&rsquo;s intransigence appears to be based on the assumptions of Raila&rsquo;s former aide Salim Lone, a Kenyan-born former UN operative who now resides in the US, when he wrote in the Siasa pullout of July 15, 2015, the day President Obama landed in Kenya, &ldquo;Another flawed election will doom democracy and stability in Kenya, and spell trouble for the rest of the world&rdquo;.As bombast goes, this is way over the top. Nonetheless, Kenyans must change tack from blockade to dialogue. They have everything to lose if they do not.