Recovery in the tourism sector continues to gain steady momentum with another cruise ship calling at the port of Mombasa. This underscores the rising number of international tourists for a sector that has since 2011 relied on domestic guests for beach and safari tourism following a battering occasioned by sustained terror-linked threats.Owing to reduced threats of piracy and improved security at the Coast, the number of international guests has started to grow.On Saturday, US-bound MV Nautica made a call at the port with 591 tourists and 400 crew members on board. This came just days after another cruise ship, MS Silver Cloud, called at the port with 438 guests on Tuesday. The group comprised 216 tourists and 222 crew members.By September, Kenya had received over 2,400 cruise tourists according to data from Kenya Tourism Board.The total numbers of cruise tourists who arrived in Kenya in 2015 were 3,196, unlike 2014 where only 362 tourists came. By last December, six cruise ships docked in Kenya compared to only one in 2014.General Manager for Travellers Beach Hotel and Club, Fred Kiuru said business has been performing better than last year since the onset of the high season in July. He attributed this to improved security and international marketing done by the Ministry of Tourism.Kiuru said cruise tourism will elevate the standards of the port of Mombasa to compete with other busy international ports.MV Nautica will cruise through Zanzibar before making its last call at the port of Durban, South Africa. Most of the tourists said this was their first visit to Kenya. A majority were from US via the Seychelles.&ldquo;Currently we are operating on an average of 90 per cent bed occupancy in many hotels in the region. Domestic tourism however takes a bigger percentage,&rdquo; Kenya Coast Tourist Association chairperson Mohammed Hersi said in a telephone interview last week.Consolidated tourist arrivals in nine months through September rose by 12.50 per cent compared to the same period last year, fresh official statistics shows, underlining a rebound in the sector.Data from Kenya Tourism Board indicates the country received 983,876 guests between January and September compared with 874,544 a year ago. Arrivals through cruise ships, KTB assistant communications manager Ng&rsquo;eno Kimutai said last Tuesday, has been growing gradually from about 500 guests recorded in 2014.The tourism sector has been recovering since 2014 after battering from travel advisories following a spate of terror threats linked to militia al Shabaab. Early 2014, the UK evacuated about 500 nationals from a Mombasa hotel, fuelling cancellation of charter flights and cruise ship trips to Mombasa.The region was estimated to have lost more than 70 per cent international guests, and has since then been depending largely on domestic tourists.