A two year love triangle was behind the shooting of a millionaire restaurateur on Thursday.William Osewe and his friend Tom Oywar Mboya had a long running feud over Osewe's wife Stella Mwende that culminated in the shooting.The proprietor of the famous Ronalo foods eatery on Kimathi Street is fighting for his life at Aga Khan hospital in Nairobi.Witnesses said that Osewe and Mboya, who are both Gor Mahia fans, exchanged harsh words when they bumped into each other at Hagon fish restaurant near Rosters along Thika road."Osewe walked in and found the other man eating. He began shouting at him, asking him what it is the man and his wife were planning," said a waiter.Mboya drew his Ceska pistol and threatened to shoot. Osewe dared him. Mboya then fired three bullets in rapid succession. Two bullets entered Osewe's abdomen and one hit his leg. One bullet exited his body and hit the leg of a watchman who did not realise until he saw the blood. Clients at the restaurant took cover while Mboya rushed to his car and drove off. Osewe lay writhing on the ground but was soon rushed to a nearby AAR clinic and then taken in an ambulance to Aga Khan hospital in critical condition.In 2014 Mboya reported at Nairobi Area CID offices that Osewe had accused him of having an affair with Mwende and threatened him.Osewe went out with Mwende, a former banker, for several years when he ran his first restaurant near Nairobi Railway Station. He eventually married her as a second wife, and they got two children who are now adults.Mboya, a former tour driver who is now running his own company, is married with seven children.He told police in 2014 that Osewe had accused him of going out with his wife, an accusation he denied.A file was opened but the two parties settled the matter out of court after intervention from family and friends.Doctors say that one bullet may have hit Osewe's spine and he risks becoming paralysed.Mboya reportedly drove his Lexus to to Kasarani police station after the incident, reported the shooting and surrendered his gun.Kasarani DCI chief Douglas Shikanda said they are still conducting investigations."We have heard that the cause of the fighting is a dispute over a certain woman, but that will be covered in the course of the investigation," Shikanda said.Police are also investigating if Mboya's gun was licensed. The police denied him a firearms license three times in the past.Osewe's restaurant along Kimathi Street was packed with clients as usual yesterday. Many had not heard about the shooting but the staff and some guests had heard.The staff wished their boss a quick recovery.