The Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation wants the National Assembly to fast-track the enactment of a bill to unlock Sh2 billion investment in strategic industries every year. The Strategic Industries Bill 2015 by the country's youngest legislator Kinoti Gatobu (Buuri Constituency) proposes funding from the exchequer for industries that harness creativity and innovation of youth in the counties. If the bill becomes law, about 0.1 to 0.2 per cent of the national revenues will be allocated to well researched, strategic industries which should be profitable and sustainable. This translates to about Sh2 billion because government's annual tax and non-tax revenues are about Sh2 trillion. ICDC, the state-owned development financier, said the fund will promote growth of industries in the counties. The parastatal, formed in 1954, mostly funds projects in manufacturing, agro-processing, financial services and education sectors. &ldquo;We are looking at a more restructured ICDC that focuses on projects supporting growth of youth and catalysing development within the counties,&rdquo; chairman Francis Kimemia said. &ldquo;Unless we think outside the box and harness the energy of our youth to grow the country&rsquo;s economy, despondency among youth is likely to grow with issues like unemployment becoming explosive and leading to insecurity and other anti-social behaviour.&rdquo;The projects to be funded under the proposed law should create at least one sustainable job for every Sh100,000 invested by the state &ndash; meaning at least 1,000 jobs for every Sh100 million invested. This will be coordinated by a proposed Strategic Industries Board. &ldquo;The bill gives a heavy task to the board to research heavily so as to establish which industries can be set up and achieve the set employment ratios and still remain profitable and sustainable,&rdquo; Gatobu said in a past article in the Star on the bill. The proposed law is inspired by South Korea's growth path to a global industrial giant. South Korea's economy was same size as Kenya's at independence in early 60s.ICDC sees the proposed strategic fund reviving its pivotal role in industrial development in the past year through joint ventures with private firms. Some of the companies that were created under such arrangements included Eveready EA which shut its battery factory in late 2014 in favour of imports from Egypt and Sameer Africa (formerly Firestone East Africa) which also said in September it will close factory in favour of imports from India and China. Others are General Motors East Africa, Dawa Pharmaceuticals and East African Industries which was later acquired by Unilever. The state corporation has this financial year closed deals worth Sh625 million largely with small-sized enterprises, with about Sh369 awaiting disbursement after approval.