George Michael's chart influence is being reinforced in the days after his death, as some sales and streams of his beloved music surged by 5,625 per cent.A number of the late pop superstar's albums and songs have reentered the charts, 35 years after he formed the famous duo Wham! with Andrew Ridgeley.From Wham! to his global career as a solo artist, George sold 100 million records worldwide before his untimely death on Christmas Day, at the age of 53.This week, the Wham! singer's collection of greatest hits, called Ladies &amp; Gentlemen, broke the top 10 of the album charts for the first time in 17 years.Five more of George's albums were also found in the top 100, including his last Wham! record, The Final, which reached 40, and 2014's Symphonica, now at 73.In the Official Singles Chart, Careless Whisper placed just outside the top 40 at number 44.And, considering the time of year, Wham!'s Last Christmas reached number seven as it returned to the top 10 for the first time in 31 years. Faith reentered the charts at 64 and his Freedom '90 re-released record hit the top of the Official Vinyl Singles Chart.On the duets front, George's collaboration with close friend Elton John for Don't Let The Sun Go Down On Me landed at 91. George was found dead by his long-term partner Fadi Fawaz at his home in Goring-on-Thames, Oxfordshire, five days ago.A post-mortem examination on Friday was unable to determine the cause of death and was returned inconclusive. Martin Talbot, chief executive of the Official Charts Company, said: 'The sudden and terribly sad death of George Michael has naturally prompted his fans to re-explore his rich catalogue again, paying tribute to his incredible talent, both as a solo artist and founder of Wham!.'Quite appropriately, given the season, it is Last Christmas which makes the biggest impact.'Elsewhere, Little Mix album Glory Days reclaimed the top of the album charts while Clean Bandit, who last week took the Christmas number one crown, end the year in pole position with Rockabye. Fans initially took solace in reports this week that George had three albums of unreleased music, though it's considered unlikely that they will ever be released.Most f the music never seemed ready to perfectionist George, The Mirror reports, as he spent years crafting each of his releases.Meanwhile, heartbroken Fadi released one of the singles from never-before-heard 1990s album Trojan Souls on Twitter.The lost love song, called This Kind of Love, has sparked fierce debate with some pushing for its release and others trying to protect George's legacy.Wham! co-founder Andrew tweeted to indicate his stance, insisting that George was extremely considered about his songs and would not want anyone to finish it for him. "No, #GM [George Michael] controlled all his output. I, nor anyone else have the right to transgress that principle," he wrote on Twitter on Wednesday, in response to a bid for the song's special posthumous release.It comes after David Bowie planned the release of new music following his secret battle with cancer, which ended with his unexpected death in January. The album Blackstar, released on his 69th birthday, went to Number 1 - his 10th over all - in the UK Albums Chart, selling over 49,700 in its second week, too. Then in June, following the death of another pop icon Prince, posthumous sales broke Billboard records in the US.The month after his death in May, Prince had 19 albums on the chart, almost 10 per cent of the entire Billboard 200, over one week.The record was previously held by The Beatles with 13 records at one time.