A specter is haunting the Western World. It is the specter of populism. From France to the United States, from Italy to England--that little island set in a silver sea; from Rumania to the ancient world of democracy in Greece, right and left wing populist parties and political mavericks are swaying public opinion, winning elections and capturing state power. Africa is not spared either. And it is the most developed part of Africa, for long integrated into the global economic order with its precious mines and thriving agriculture, that has seen the blossoming of populism in the midst of regional economic crises, domestic xenophobia, runaway corruption and a major economic downturn. The rise of Malema and his Economic Freedom Party in South Africa has shaken the political citadel of the ANC, causing major political realignments in local government and sending the anti-apartheid party to the drawing board in time for the next elections.The center can no longer hold for age-old established political parties that have for long survived on appealing to economic and class interests to get votes. The people are no longer moved primarily by this. Other issues matter most. Issues which appeal to the hearts of the people and address their collective insecurity while they yearn for some messianic help and salvation faced with local and global crises that threaten their livelihood. "In me you can believe; I and I alone can restore the greatness of America to you people," thundered Donald Trump in his many rallies across the USA. Why is populism so much on the rise in the Western World?In the November/December issue "Foreign Affairs", the journal published by the US Council on Foreign Relations, a group of scholars have written extensively on "The Power of Populism" in the Western World. They define populism in various ways. But key to all definitions is that the word populism comes from the word "people." The ordinary people, the common man, the "walala hoi", the "average American", those despised and neglected for too long as opposed to "the power elite", the Washington establishment, the big men who rub shoulders with globalization, etc. "All versions of populism," argues Fareed Zakaria, "share a suspicion of and hostility toward elites, mainstream politics, and established institutions. Populism sees itself as speaking for the forgotten 'ordinary' person and often imagines itself as the voice of genuine patriotism." You can now see the common ground between Malema in South Africa and Trump in the US.But to make the people fume with rage against the elite, the powers that be "or those who control our lives", these power wielders must be associated with the people's external threats or be the cause of the suffering of the people. Trump identified three major threats to the people's well being. First immigration gone wild with the connivance of the elite superintending weak and permissive laws allowing drunkards, drug addicts and criminals not only to take away jobs from the people but also to drain the public purse through social welfare. Second, globalization that takes away jobs to foreign lands in the interest of multinationals and the "global rich" while unemployment grows at home and poverty knocks the people down. And finally foreign religions and cultures that aid and abet terrorism and things which are base to western civilization and the Christian religion. All the three are interconnected and must be exorcised together with the "big brother" governments that have been soft on them. Populists must win power and run government with direct connection to the people: no intermediaries. It may not be as simple as that but it wins votes.While fanning the flames of populism to mobilize "the people" into an army of voters, the process itself can ignite raw and unbridled feelings of ethnic, racial and religious intolerance reminiscent of Nazism, Fascism, Apartheid, the Ku Klux Klan and the Isis. In the wake of Donald Trump's ascendance, right wing whites have already been reported as organizing lynchings against Latinos, poor African Americans and other immigrant workers. In discussing "Trump and American Populism," Michael Kazin makes an intriguing but interesting conclusion. "Populism," he argues, "provides a language that can strengthen democracy, not imperil it...Populism has had an unruly past. Racists and would-be authoritarians have exploited its appeal, as have more tolerant foes of plutocracy. But Americans have found no more powerful way to demand that their political elites live up to the ideals of equal opportunity and democratic rule to which they pay lip service during campaign seasons. Populism can be dangerous, but it may also be necessary."The scholars argue that the seeds of populism have been sprouting for some time in the Western World: it is not altogether a surprising development. Populism has historical roots. In the case of the European Union, the problem was planted essentially within the manner in which the fabric of the Union was woven in the first place; it was bound to prove unpalatable to both the British and the French sooner rather than later. The euro favored Germany and not France. The European Union labour laws led to high unemployment in France which, in the context of the immigration laws, essentially dump low-wage employees in France. Like Marine Le Pen, the leader of the populist National Front puts it, "France has always been much more powerful being France on its own than being a province of the European Union."Thus European populists, as well as their American counterparts, are rather suspicious of big economic blocks, trade deals that tie their countries to international relationships beyond their control and the traditional global institutions that came up after the Second World War--so-called Breton Woods institutions--to create (again so-called) a stable international economic system. Donald Trump has made it quite clear that he will do away with NAFTA, not pay much attention to NATO members who cannot take care of their security and perhaps throw the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement to the dustbin. But one wonders whether Trump will do this notwithstanding the contrary views from the Pentagon or the State Department.That, of course, brings us to another governance trait of populists. Writing about populism in Latin America in this same issue of "Foreign Affairs," Shannon K. O'Neil notes that "history shows that populism polarizes societies, weakens economies, and undermines representative democracy (by weakening liberal democratic institutions)..Populist leaders favor administrative decrees and marginalize legislatures...they undermine plans for long term economic growth through unpredictable policymaking...that lead to repeated crises and market gyrations, which in turn reduce spending on infrastructure, education and health care--the building blocks of prosperity."Trump has already started by dismissing the professional work of the CIA regarding the "Russia-gate" affair. He has equally spoken in rather derogatory terms regarding the periodic intelligence briefings that he is expected to be receiving while waiting to assume office. Closer home, Kenyans will remember how Daniel Toroitich arap Moi trampled on democratic institutions during his 24 year reign, very often preferring his own personal solutions to problems rather than those of professional state bureaucrats. The end result was stagnation in economic growth, wanton unemployment and a dysfunctional state that we are still trying to put right a decade and a half since Moi left power. Notwithstanding the intricacies of our current constitution, the populist traits in the UhuRuto government, aided by a compliant legislature, has also led to market gyrations, a runaway debt burden and unbridled corruption that has achieved little in improving good governance and strengthening liberal democratic institutions. If anything right wing populism is raring its ugly head again with road side policymaking and a constant search to pitch "the people" against "the enemies of the people."