Who is responsible for traffic lights at City Hall? Nairobians and other motorists using Jogoo Road are questioning why the lights at the junction of Jogoo Road and Rabai Road were vandalised almost a year ago and are yet to be replaced. It is reported that numerous accidents have occurred at the junction as motorists, especially matatu drivers, drive carelessly without giving way to private vehicles. Motorists now want Governor Evan Kidero to order immediate replacement. ******A local bank has taken over an insurance company with clear instructions to terminate all medical policies where insurers have ever made claims, despite the number of years they have insured with the company. They are operating on a blind assumption that Kenyans are unaware of their rights - but it's just a matter of time before lawsuits start flying in from enlightened clients. They have vowed to recoup the cash they have been losing through interest rates.******Just a few months to the 2017 general election, a first-time MP from Western has completely gone underground. The one-time vocal man who has now gone mute. He is also known for his insatiable appetite for young girls and is rumored to have gone broke after transacting with "businessmen" from West Africa who told him they could help him invest the money and by this campaign season the cash would have doubled. But the said "businessmen" are said to have vanished into thin air and no longer pick his calls.******With DR Congo is facing it's most serious political challenge following the expiry of President Joseph Kabila's term of office, and some Congolese businessmen have gone into panic mode. The businessmen, mostly in the gold trade, are concerned that the impending political conflict threatens their business. They complain the unrest that may ensue will give gold smugglers an opportunity to get into the country and get as much gold as they can with little reference to them. They are planning to present a petition to their government through the embassy in Nairobi to suspend trade in gold until the political uncertainty is cleared.*****Could the organisers of the ongoing African Carribean Pacific-European Union Joint Parliamentary Assembly session at the KICC have goofed? Senior officials of Parliament are said to be unhappy with the organisers after they found themselves without seats when President Uhuru Kenyatta officially opened it on Monday. Our mole told Corridors that the organisers wrongly reserved the seats for some delegates and left out others, who found themselves stranded as they moved from one corner to another looking for empty seats - with little success.