A month ago, a group of media leaders attending the Bloomberg Business Media Innovators Forum at Enashipai in Naivasha were pleasantly surprised to learn that the group of young people who served them at a gala dinner were fresh graduates of the NYS School of Hospitality.Here is one good thing that has come out of the NYS, one of the delegates remarked.The young men and women put on a display, marching in lines to the tables they were waiting on, before laying down the dish in a military drill-like routine.Many people had, until that day, not heard of the NYS School of Hospitality. There are many successes about the youth programme that Kenyans don't know about; the cloud over the misuse of money allocated to NYS by politicians and former senior managers has managed to overshadow the benefits that the programme has brought.The NYS was established by an Act of Parliament in September 1964. Its mandate then was to facilitate training of youths with a focus on employment and to develop a sense of responsibility, service to the nation, promotion of discipline, citizenship and national cohesion.About 4,000 youths were recruited annually and trained in various skills, including paramilitary, engineering, fashion and design, business management, catering, agriculture, secretarial, plant operation, construction and driving. They were prepared for other national matters such as service in the armed forces and national reconstruction and disaster responses. These remain relevant to date.In 2013, the government restructured the NYS into a premier agency through which the administration could execute an elaborate and comprehensive youth empowerment master plan that would impact a significant portion of the millions of youths in Kenya.5-point visionA five-point vision was conceived, designed, written and commissioned. The NYS developed a vision &ldquo;to catalyse transformative youth empowerment in Kenya&rdquo;.The five points are paramilitary training and service regimentation, national service and youth re-socialisation, social transformation and vocational training, enterprise and youth economy, and the fifth is bankable institutional infrastructure.Paramilitary training and service regimentation are done in two intakes per year, every six months. They expose trainees to strict discipline, dedication, perseverance, persistence, courage and commitment to higher ideals.National service and youth re-socialisation are the second pillar. This is the stage where NYS servicemen and women move into communities to work side-by-side with and mentor community youth as they undertake nation-building activities. This is considered a high-impact stage and is the point at which the percolation of social transformation is targetted to begin.Specifically, the NYS encourages &lsquo;humanitarianism, humanism and patriotism&rsquo; in community youth so that they can take control of their destiny, be good citizens and realise their responsibility to fellow human beings and their country.The third pillar is social transformation and vocational training. The social transformation aspect focusses on inclusion and civic competence and specialised skills for both NYS recruits and community youth.The fourth pillar is Enterprise and Youth Economy, where government encourages youths to venture into self-employment and establishment of enterprises that create jobs for their peers. They do this by instituting revolving funds, registering saccos and self-employment promotion units as well as encouraging a savings culture among community youth.The fifth pillar, bankable institutional architecture, involves internal restructuring of the Service to enable it to deliver on a five-point vision.At all stages of training and service, all the youths must be regimented in squads, or vikosi, of 15 per squad, in order to ensure command and control. The groups remain united in purpose through rituals of bonding, what is also called esprit de corps. The groups of 15 are required to bond in order to support one another. Community youth are required to make a mandatory savings of Sh100 per day, deposited into their sacco account. The ritual of daily savings to a collective account is what bonds them as a group. It is estimated that a squad of 15, for example, will bank a minimum of Sh111,000 after an average of 74 days of service.The principle of livelihood anticipates that the plan must make economic sense to the youth in a sustainable fashion. They are therefore required to create saccos and construction guilds. A squad with Sh111,000, for example, can attract a cooperative or Uwezo loan of three times the amount or a matching grant from the Ministry of Devolution. This is enough to buy two brand new motorcycles for the squad of 15.Identity and significance counteract grievance. The aim is to prevent the emergence of vigilante groups, and act as a counter-strategy against radicalisation. The NYS argues that the youth need to feel significant, important and involved, hence the work they do should be meaningful and impact both their lives and those of their community members. The Service links community youth to initiatives such as a the nyumba kumi, where residents are encouraged to participate in their own security.The NYS has increased its intake five times, from an average of 4,000 per year to 21,870 every year in two intakes. This increase aims to bridge the skills gap among unemployed, out-of-school youths to ensure as many as possible get formal or self-employment. In addition, the 21,000 servicemen and women work with and mentor 227,000 community youths every year as paid labour as they undertake nation-building activities.Success storiesThe NYS youth empowerment programme has been implemented since October 2014 and remains unique because of its ability to inculcate a savings culture among the youth. From the outset, youths are encouraged to save 30 percent of their daily wage. They are paid Sh471 per day and Sh50 is paid to Huduma kitchens for their lunch. Their daily wage saving is deducted through a check-off system and remitted to their sacco.At the beginning, this proved a challenge, but as the goal was achieved, it became easier. The youths have accumulated savings amounting to Sh1.4 billion in 300 saccos spread across 74 constituencies.Joseph Esikuku, a youth from Isiolo, says the system had teething problems that have since been smoothed out.&ldquo;In Isiolo county, 1,350 youths have come together under the NYS youth enterprise programme and formed three saccos; Burat Cohorts, Wabera and Bula Pesa, currently with savings of Sh12,498,775. We are currently processing and issuing loans to members upon application,&rdquo; Esikuku said.Youths have been encouraged to practice the table-banking concept in smaller groups, where they further save their daily wage and other earnings. But inculcating a savings culture is not an end in itself and the saccos are encouraged to continue receiving entrepreneurship and business development training to enable them to invest the money saved.The saccos have also developed the capacity to engage in business. For example, youths in Kibera previously had low participation in products like the Youth Enterprise Development Fund and the Uwezo Fund, for lack of documentation and collateral, among other requirements. But upon saving and borrowing, coupled with prompt repayment in saccos for over one year, they have managed to develop a financial history for future use.&ldquo;I began with a minimal borrowing of Sh10,000 and invested in small businesses. With extra income, I increased my share capital and it has grown to Sh172,000," said Charles Mathenge, a member of Power Mix Sacco in Kibera. &ldquo;I have now borrowed Sh500,000, which I have used to buy a tuk tuk for the transport business.&rdquo;At the Youth Summit held in State House on October 3, 2016, one of the beneficiaries, Joseph Wainaina, explained: &ldquo;We have come together, 25 of us from our saccos in Korogocho, and have managed to collect our borrowed savings into one pool. At the moment, we have raised Sh1 million and are looking for further funding to buy a matatu.&rdquo;The sacco model has brought a lot of these youths into the formal sphere, where they are now applying for bank accounts, personal identification numbers from the Kenya Revenue Authority, and certification that allows them to take advantage of the 30 percent government procurement opportunities reserved for women and youth.The saccos have also helped to nurture a crop of young leaders as they are run and managed by the youths themselves. The impact of so many saccos in so many constituencies, will have a far-reaching positive impact in their communities.As the catering graduates showed in Naivasha, they can be as successful as graduates from any top college.