Nurses and governors are expected to begin talks on the medics&rsquo; Collective Bargaining Agreement in the second week of January.The governors&rsquo; side will be led by Kisii&rsquo;s James Ongwae, while the nurses will be led by Kenya National Union of Nurses secretary general Seth Panyako. Ongwae is unlikely to sit through negotiations. He will simply oversee the process.Council of Governors chairman Peter Munya said the CBA is expected to be completed by March 2017. Doctors are still on strike after walking out of negotiations with the national government.The nurses suspended their two-week-long strike mid - this month after they were awarded a monthly allowance of up to Sh20,000.The increment will take effect from the end of January and will be safeguarded in the final CBA, Panyako said.The union leaders received a reprieve after the courts stopped a move to sack them. The move would have potentially nullified the return-to-work formula and the recognition agreement they signed for nurses to end their 14-day strike. The union officials have been fighting a faction that claims they are in office illegally. The Employment and Labour Relations Court directed the Registrar of Trade Unions to register the officials as the bona fide office-bearers. &ldquo;The officials must be registered within seven days,&rdquo; Justice Hellen Wasilwa ruled. She said the registrar has no powers to refuse to register elected officials. Jeremiah Maina, Jophinus Musundi and others, who filed the case challenging the legitimacy of the Knun officials, were told they did not have any mandate to file the petition. Had they been successful, Panyako and chairman John Biiy would have vacated office and new officials could seek to nullify decisions made in the past. The two came into office in January, although no election was held. Panyako told the Star the group opposed to his &ldquo;election&rdquo; did not understand the union constitution and Labour Relations Act. &ldquo;I gave a 21-day election notice on the 5th of January this year, but no one applied to vie for any position, so we were elected unopposed. How then do they claim we are in office illegally? They are stupid,&rdquo; he said early this year. Maina and Musundi accused Panyako of using the union for personal gain, including calling for stage-managed strikes. &ldquo;Nurses have been going on strike on many occasions these past years, but after two or three weeks, they are told to go back to work yet no CBA has been honoured,&rdquo; Maina said. The county governments have agreed not to discipline nurses and union officials for participating in the strike.