Eight years ago, nobody thought that the first African American President would be succeeded by a bigot. In the past eight years, President Barack Obama has elevated leadership to levels that seem unattainable and for close to a decade, the articulate Commander-in-Chief was always the benchmark when it came to governance. Many heads of state and government globally paled in comparison when it came to contrasting to how President Obama carried himself. He remains as the paragon of manhood and conduit of masculinity, a role model to boys and young men throughout history. It has been reported by several quotas that women s rights have never flourished as much as they have under his eight year administration. From funding Planned Parenthood to the implementation of The Lily Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, which attempts to ensure equal pay for equal work between the two genders. Obama s presidency has been adjudged as successful. His successor is an overt sexist, misogynist and chauvinist who is on record boasting of how he gropes women without their consent, and how he sexually assaults them. He is also on record for incestuously remarking about a hopeful tryst with his oldest daughter and also rates women on a scale between one and 10. Since his surprise election, trouncing his closest challenger Hillary Clinton in the Electoral College vote Clinton won the popular vote many have attributed his unexpected ascendancy to his rogue character and it has now grown to be celebrated and emulated.It should not be forgotten that the new leader of the free world is a deeply flawed man whose morals are far from his mainly Christian party s ideologies. From tax dodges to his numerous extra marital affairs, the man is not meant to be celebrated but to be condemned.As the world, transitions from a sober, universally celebrated, intelligent and urbane Commander-in-Chief President Obama to the Real Estate mogul President-elect Donald Trump how will the global egalitarian society push for the punishment of perpetrators of rape and sexual assault when one of them was rewarded with the most powerful and prestigious office in the world, the US presidency? Trump s presidency should not be normalised.