Kenya suffered an embarrassing batting collapse and were bundled out for 105 runs in pursuit for UAE&rsquo;s112 in their second match of the UAE International women&rsquo;s Twenty 20 in Sharjah.The loss, the first for Kenya in the nine-day event, was so bad that Kenya women lost eight wickets for 18 runs after seating comfortably at 86 for 2.UAE skipper Humaira Tasneem led from the front with a deadly six-wicket spell to ensure a six-run win for her side at the Sharjah Cricket Ground.Batting first, UAE posted 111 for eight with Natasha Michael top scoring with 27 runs. She hit four boundaries during her 33-ball knock before being run out. Roopa Nagraj too chipped in with 25 runs. Chasing the total, Kenya were well placed at 50 for one before Tasneem ran through Kenya innings with a spell of six wickets for nine runs off her four overs. Mary Wambui scored 27 runs and Sharon Juma hit 24 in Kenya&rsquo;s total of 105.Kenya began the chase on a bright start with openers Wambui and Quinta Aoko putting on 18 in 1.3 overs before Wambui and Margaret Banja got Kenya to 50 in eight overs. Even after the dismissal of Banja on 19, Kenya were on course of an easy win with Wambui and Sharon Juma adding on 36 in five overs. But the introduction of the skipper in the attack put brakes on Kenya&rsquo;s surge as she broke the stand by bowling Wambui for 27 from 37 balls.Two balls later, Kenya were four wickets down when Tasneem had Sarah Bhakita caught for a two-ball duck. Juma and Vanessa Adhiambo could only put on five runs before Tasneem got her third by uprooting Adhiambo&rsquo;s stumps on one.Debutant Veronica Abuga didn&rsquo;t trouble the scorers as she was out for a golden duck. Skipper Daisy Wairimu followed suit on three to become Tasneem&rsquo;s sixth scalp.At 95 for 7 with two overs to play, Kenya needed Juma to remain on the crease and at least salvage something but four balls later, she was headed back to the pavilion on 24 runs off 29 balls.Brenda Mogusu and Edith Wanjiku were not able to finish the work as Kenya fell six runs short in 20 overs. Despite early loss of wickets, the hosts managed to build up stands that led them to the final score of 111 for 6.They recovered from 25 for 2 in 7.2 overs to get to 58 for 3 in 13.4 overs before getting to 108 for 5 in the last over. In the first match of the day, Kuwait scored an emphatic 10-wicket victory over Oman. At Ajman ground, Malaysia defeated Qatar by nine wickets. Qatar were bowled out for 52 in 19.1 overs.