Mediocrity is easy to cultivate. Do bare minimum work, ignore learning and never mind growth &ndash; and you have it. Stay the same year after year, work mindlessly with little or no desire to get better, plateau and viola! Mediocrity is always within reach. No hard work required. This art of the disengaged mind makes even the most interesting endeavours boring. In my view, the entrepreneur should have zero-tolerance for mediocrity. And this is why: it leads to irrelevance and the eventual loss of your business. Often, this happens subtly because the comfort zone is cozy and with time the warmth paralyses creativity. Mediocrity is a disease. Now, how do you avoid it? There are three simple ways. Just say no: The motivational speaker, Dr. Mike Murdock, said that, &ldquo;Whatever you tolerate will grow.&rdquo; Any leader who allows mediocrity to take root in the organization will have more of it. Like cancer, it spreads. That&rsquo;s why entrepreneurs should learn to say no to it. Refuse to have it in the quality of your work or in your team. As a leader, it&rsquo;s your job to help your team create and sustain excellent work. Excellence is the capacity for exceptional quality. To eliminate mediocrity, you must care about producing exceptional quality work. If you don&rsquo;t care, your team won&rsquo;t. You have to appreciate the benefits of excellence in business. In a competitive market, your commitment to high quality service cannot be questioned. Keep raising the bar: To grow in excellence, you have to operate with a measure of dissatisfaction. At each level, you must be curious about the next level. People skilled at producing excellent work constantly ask themselves: how can we do this better? How do we bring more value to our clients? What needs to change for us to attain greater heights? It&rsquo;s the constant questioning of your current approach in order to serve people better. Systemise excellence: One way to do this is to drill high productivity habits into your team by modeling key success principles. For instance, you can instill the principle of showing up to work and meetings on time by constantly keeping time and making lateness a big deal. This way, your team will eventually align and timeliness would become your organization&rsquo;s norm. Any principle can be instilled in the work place if the leaders clearly cast the vision and model whatever they want to see in the workers. Once an idea becomes culture, it&rsquo;s a system.Twitter: @SamuelMpamugo Blog: theyouideology.com