To wildlife photographer Paras Chandaria, the Nairobi National Park is a second home. He drives through the park to and from work every day with admiration on one hand, and anxiety on the other as the standard gauge railway project threatens to cut through it.&ldquo;Look there!&rdquo; Paras shouts, rolling down the windows of his land cruiser and pointing at a herd of hartebeests, antelopes and some warthogs grazing with the city as a backdrop.&ldquo;Where else do you find this? Just 10 minutes from a busy city highway and two minutes into the park, you get to see and feel this. It can only be paradise on earth,&rdquo; he says. Paras says he is grateful to the city&rsquo;s forefathers for preserving this gem for residents to 70 years later. &ldquo;We are humbled and forever thankful, but to my generation threatening its existence, shame on us,&rdquo; he said.He called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to live up to his father's dream and protect the park. "At all gates of the NNP, there are boards with Mzee Jomo Kenyatta&rsquo;s commitment that the government will conserve the park for posterity with all its means at disposal. I hope the President will use this anniversary to recommit himself to this," he says.UNIQUE SELLING POINTSimon Trevor, who worked as an honorary warden for the park since 1958, recalls the old days of the park with nostalgia. &ldquo;In those days, there were no package tourists, so it was mostly locals who visited. There were more lions to be seen regularly and even then they were the most sought-after attraction,&rdquo; he says.He says his roles included finding the most accessible pride of lions and then staying with it until nightfall, when everyone left.In 1960, now a full-time Kenya National Parks warden, Trevor recalls accompanying Bill Woodley to carry out tests on rhinos just outside the park in the Kitengela area, using the new Palmer capture gun. He says they saw rhinos regularly from the park boundary to the Rift Valley at Corner Baridi, even right down into the valley.&ldquo;To date, no other city in the world can boast of having wild animals such as lions, cheetahs and rhinos right on its doorstep. For that, Nairobi is unique, and I believe much more could be made of this in Kenya's promotion programme,&rdquo; he says, adding that the threats the park is facing are all man-made but can still be solved.&ldquo;To protect this park might require special consideration, or if you like, sacrifices, but why do we have to be afraid of making the decisions so necessary to conserve the NNP for the future? It will surely prove the right thing to do in the long term,&rdquo; he says.&lsquo;UNSOUND&rsquo; DEVELOPMENTEven though anniversaries are meant to be moments of joy and celebrations, to Dr Perez Olindo, it will be a painful moment. Olindo, a zoologist and wildlife management expert served between 1966 and 1981 as the first African director of the then Kenya National Parks Authority, now Kenya Wildlife Service.&ldquo;There is nothing to celebrate about. This year's anniversary should be a moment to pity ourselves. We are ruining the natural jewel of our heritage that not only plays a key ecological function but is iconic to the character of Nairobi as a capital city,&rdquo; Olindo says."Those organising celebrations for this day, if they do not rebuke and send out a strong message against intrusion in the park, then they are hypocrites. Their actions are equal to dancing on the graveyard of our park." He says in 1966, the NNP was a wonderful natural environment, the envy of world capitals who could never bring back their capitals to Nairobi&rsquo;s stature.&ldquo;Some of us who were in charge then were keen never to allow decimation of even an inch of the park because it&rsquo;s not ours to dispose of but simply we understood we were its guardian for future generations,&rdquo; he says.&ldquo;It bleeds my heart to see the destructions disguised as development going on in the park surprisingly with the blessings of the custodians of these natural resources.&rdquo;Carnivore ecologist Dr Mordecai Ogada says the park risks not reaching the next decade due to rampant encroachment.&ldquo;This anniversary should be used to remind us where we went wrong and teach us a lesson on the dangers of environmentally unsound and unplanned development. The state of the NNP is a snapshot of the weakness and failures in the conservation sector,&rdquo; he says.'FINAL NAIL IN THE COFFIN'Emuhaya MP Wilbur Otichillo says the park is on a &ldquo;slow death&rdquo;. He worked an environmentalist who worked with the KWS as a director in-charge of biodiversity and planning between 1977 to 1994.&ldquo;Its future is bleak but this didn't start today. It&rsquo;s a culmination of events,&rdquo; he says. In the 1990s, the park extended to Kajiado, with clear migration corridors to Amboseli and Namanga through the Athi Kapiti plains.The coming of the Athi River Export Processing Zones sealed off the migratory routes, while unplanned developments sprung up in Kitengela and Rongai.&ldquo;Despite the buildings choking and creating an insular island ecosystem, the final nail in the coffin of the NNP will be this standard gauge railway,&rdquo; he says. The MP says the project sets a precedent that will lead to other national parks being used as cheap and easy alternative routes to carry infrastructure.This is not the first time the park is facing intrusion. In July, the KWS, against resistance from conservationists, agreed that the SGR Phase I could route through around 250 acres of the NNP near Mlolongo to protect Alan Donovan's African Heritage House.Later, the Transport ministry and the KWS struck a deal allowing 89 acres of the park land to be hived off. This would pave way for completion of the Nairobi Southern Bypass, in exchange for cash compensation.Recently the Kenya Electricity Transmission Company (Ketraco) erected gigantic electricity pylons inside the park, now shining across 8km along the eastern boundary. The Kenya Pipeline Company has also installed its main transmission pipeline across the park from the southern tip to the northern boundary of the protected area.Proponents of the SGR Phase II with the blessings of KWS have planned to have the line ran across the park though on pillars and exit the park at Rhino Sanctuary. Experts have argued this will bisect the park, causing habitat fragmentation, inbreeding and ecosystem imbalance, killing the park in the long term.&ldquo;All these have shrunk the park size and basically, it wont be a park anymore. This anniversary will be one to preside over its death courtesy of failed and compromised conservators who no longer have credibility,&rdquo; Otichillo says.COMPROMISED CLAIM &lsquo;STUPID&rsquo;KWS chairman Richard Leakey directed any questions on the SGR to those with the mandate of building it and the government that is meeting the cost and handling policy.&ldquo;As for the stupid idea that I caved in or have been compromised, I can but say shame on you for even bringing this up yet again. I have no time for you at this level,&rdquo; he said.KWS director general Kitili Mbathi was unavailable for comment.AT A GLANCE-NNP was gazetted in 1946 as a seasonal park, making it the oldest in East Africa. It is the only metropolitan park in the world, making Nairobi a World Safari capital.-The park's acreage remained intact, with the animals confined in 117.21 square kilometres (28,963 acres) until 2014, when the bypass and the SGR Phase I projects started eating into the park, chopping off about 400 acres.-The SGR Phase II as proposed plans to bisect the park at the middle, which conservationists have said will cause irreparable damage to the park.-They have proposed the route be diverted from Konza City, skirt further south behind Kitengela town, then run down to Isinya to Corner Baridi to Ngong.-The park is the only true wilderness area in a capital city in the world with the most visited wildlife protected area in Kenya and the fourth-largest income earner among all wildlife national parks and reserves in the country. -Over 150,000 tourists visit annually, generating about Sh60 million per year. Most of the income comes from park entry fees. There are no lodges or hotels in the park.-The park is a critical breeding sanctuary for the near-extinct black rhino and white rhino populations. The sanctuary is the most important supplier of individuals to for restocking other parks and sanctuaries in Kenya and parts of East Africa. -The park hosts more than 400 species of birds and more than 45 species of mammals, including the famous big five animals. Some plants and animals found within the protected area are endemic, while others are rare remnants of extinct ecological systems.