SportPesa Premier League outfit, Western Stima are on the brink of losing two key players ahead of the next season.Chairman Laban Jobita confirmed that SPL giants AFC Leopards and Gor Mahia have approached him seeking the services of goalkeeper Gabriel Andika and upcoming midfielder Kenneth Miguna respectively.&ldquo;The two players have also told me that they are keen on playing for the giants. I have told them to weigh their options and report back to me for the final decision and I am still waiting for the final decision from the two before we start negotiations with the two clubs,&rdquo; added Jobita. He also said that Western Stima had begun the process of signing new players. &ldquo;The process has begun but it&rsquo;s still at the technical bench level. Once they are done, they&rsquo;ll get back to me as the chairman so that I can pursue it to conclusion,&rdquo; he said.The Western Stima boss said he is not worried about losing players but he is rather proud of the fact that his players are getting more opportunities.&ldquo;I am very proud of that because, if you can bring a player from the secondary level to the Premier League and in the first or second year, top clubs are battling for him, then you know you know you are doing something right in as far as the development of talent is concerned,&rdquo; said Jobita.&ldquo;Western region is a hotbed of talent and as far as we are concerned, we see nothing wrong in recruiting, nurturing and even selling the players to other clubs who do not have development structures,&rdquo; he noted He also said that the advantage of losing players is that it creates more chances for the upcoming players. Jobita said he is impressed with the fact that some of his players have been selected to join the group that will go for camp a head of the friendly match with English Premier League side, Hull City. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t have a problem with that because those kind of opportunities are very rare,&rdquo; he added. Meanwhile, Gor Mahia are chasing after seven more players in the pre-season transfer window. K&rsquo;Ogalo missed out on the Kenyan Premier League trophy and all other domestic titles in 2015. Coach Ze Maria has identified weak points of the team and picked out seven players from the country for signing ahead of 2017.The targets can fit in all the departments from goal keeping to striking as confirmed by Chairman Ambrose Rachier. &ldquo;We are very busy in the transfer period and have already identified seven players to sign. They are purely from Kenya and in all departments as suggested by our coach. I can&rsquo;t give out names as early as this because we are not done with the paperwork.&rdquo;Besides, Western Stima&rsquo;s Muguna, Gor have been linked with Tusker midfielder Hashim Sempala and team-mate Shafiq Batambuze.&mdash;Additional report by Goal.com