WHY is Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula (pictured) and his brigade uncomfortable with the naming of a Luhya spokesman? The initiative, spearheaded by Cotu Secretary General Francis Atwoli, has rattled many Western politicians. Even Jubilee zealots like Benjamin Washiali are equally jittery. But perhaps Wetang&rsquo;ula and his deputy Boni Khalwale already know what is in Atwoli&rsquo;s &ldquo;envelope&rdquo;. Sources whisper to Corridors that the veteran trade unionist could unveil ANC Party Leader Musalia Mudavadi as the region&rsquo;s kingpin. But even if the Atwoli initiative is shelved, would Wetang&rsquo;ula accept to play second fiddle to Mudavadi in Nasa, where Raila Odinga appears to treat Mudavadi as more senior?CORRIDORS has it that a section of the Jubilee Party met recently and fronted Wafula Chebukati as a replacement for Issack Hassan as the next IEBC chairman. The serious wheeler-dealers have however decided to offer the IEBC CEO Ezra Chiloba a &ldquo;nice&rdquo; package to leave because, coming from the same community as Chebukati, it will not augur well for the principle of regional representation. The same group that is pushing for Chiloba&rsquo;s exit was heard recently saying that after all the CEO is not their person but a spanner boy of their partner coalition and that removing him will also solve their problem. One of the key individuals pushing for the changes at the secretariat was heard to say, &ldquo;Let us give this boy money and another job to stop these fools.&rdquo;ODM-Cord Leader Raila Odinga knows only too well the 2017 race will be a marathon for him and his team. Sources whisper to Corridors that in a memo to his staff at Capitol Hill office, Raila told his team to take an early Christmas break, relax and come back rejuvenated for what will undoubtedly be a test of endurance. It&rsquo;s not clear when exactly they are resuming. But it&rsquo;s said their jobs are clearly cut out. The Opposition&rsquo;s duel with the State will start early in the year. The first week of January, for instance, is the beginning of street protests against amendments to the electoral laws.BOMET Governor Isaac Rutto is a master schemer. He executed many schemes before he managed to acquire his Chama Cha Mashinani. Sources whisper to Corridors that the NIS declined to approve the party&rsquo;s registration. Rutto then acquired the People&rsquo;s Patriotic Party of Kenya - and changed its name to CCM. Today, the governor seeks to become the CCM Party Leader. In the latest gazette notice, he names Isiolo Deputy Governor Mohammed Guleid as his chairman and David Sang as the secretary general. Ezekiel Kipkorirkley is the youth leader and Jacinta Lengolos is the executive director.