Commission on Revenue Allocation chairman Micah Cheserem yesterday urged Auditor General Edward Ouko to show in his reports the exact amount of money lost in counties so action can be taken.He said Ouko releases generalised reports, making it difficult for authorities to know the exact amount stolen or misappropriated to apprehend those complicit.&ldquo;Very soon Kenyans will start ignoring these reports because they don&rsquo;t tell us the genuine loss and who was responsible,&rdquo; Cheserem said.He said 80 per cent of what the reports claim has been misappropriated is due to accounting errors.&ldquo;I&rsquo;m not saying no money has been lost. Corruption is real, both in the counties and the national government. But the counties should know two or three days before reports are released to respond to queries,&rdquo; Cheserem said.He cited Nairobi, which the Auditor in the 2014-15 report said could not account for Sh20 billion. Cheserem said it is illogical for the county to misappropriate Sh20 billion from a budget of Sh23 billion.&ldquo;I read that Nairobi lost Sh20 billion. How could that have happened from a budget of Sh23 billion?&rdquo; he said.The chairman spoke at City Hall, where he was hosted by Deputy Governor Jonathan Mueke. He later inspected projects undertaken by the county government since 2013.Mueke faulted the Auditor General&rsquo;s report, saying the county initiated many projects during the year, which could not have been possible if Sh20 billion was stolen.&ldquo;We have increased the number of streetlights from 20,000 to 60,000. We have 105 ongoing projects. How could these be possible?&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;The Auditor also questioned the system we use to collect revenue, yet since we came here, we have increased our collection from Sh7.1 billion to Sh13.1 billion.&rdquo;Cheserem wants counties to increase their revenues. He said the commission will work with the National Treasury to help county boost revenue. &ldquo;In five years, Nairobi should be depending on its own [revenue]. There are a lot of property in Nairobi, which can generate revenue, especially land rates,&rdquo; he said. The Auditor General last month uploaded to its website a massive audit report for 2014-15, county by county. In Nairobi, issues raised included millions of shillings collected in parking fees and repayment of loans worth more than Sh735 million.