Creativity in business. Creativity means generation of new ideas. In business, generation of new ideas is not enough. The ideas must also be appropriate, useful and implementable. Process of bringing new ideas into the marketplace is called innovation. Innovation can emerge from non-technological knowledge: the know-how, skills, and organisational processes. All innovation demands creativity. Creativity for growth. In the post-crisis years as economic productivity and growth remain low, leading business media, such as the Business Week, Forbes, Fortune, and Wired, brings creativity and innovation front and center in corporate consciousness. The 2016 World Economic Forum (WEF) and its 2016/17 Global Competitiveness Report agree. 'Leveraging creativity and innovation is at the heart of a competitive and resilient economy. Such driven economies are the best equipped to adapt to the changes and reap their benefits. Monetary stimuli such as quantitative easingare not enough to sustain growth. Investment in innovation is now as important as infrastructure, skills and efficient markets.' Economic factors.The surge of the importance of creativity and innovation coincides with the fundamental changes to the traditional manufacturing industry that create the entirely new industrial and consumption models. Amongst the economic factors that make creativity in business vital are: Pressures due to new technology. Rise in consumer power and demand for customised products and services. Globalisation, a free movement of capital (as a digital signal) and its concentration in hands of a group of corporations. The term is different from integration, internalisation, or flat-world economy that mean products are designed in one country, and manufactured and sold in others. Flat-world economy, and sustainability of environment. Goal. The goal ofinnovation is to make business more effective for the purpose of profit ('profits are paychecks for innovation'). Creativity takes all realms of business: money, management, and production. New products and services, new operation models and processes, new markets and marketing methods, all impact on shareholder value and competitive advantage. Essence. The essence of creativity in business is to bring change. Change can be radical or gradual.Radical innovations (disruptive innovation) transform the way we live, and lead to long-term advantages. Graduate innovations can drive short-term sales, and sometimes can lead to a breakthrough. Developing more radical products and processes will maintain a competitive edge more effectively, according to the WEF. In the light of current economic sluggishness, businesses must resist pressures to cut back on innovation spending that will be critical for sustainable growth in the future. Not all change is innovation; changes for the sake of change should be avoided. Consumer in mind. Successful companies understand its customers' 'unmet needs'. As Steve Jobs noted, 'customers can't want what they can't imagine'. But end-user innovations should not be confused with traditional 'market research' that is primarily concerned with improving established products. Planned and intentional. While creativity is a natural human activity, in the context of business it needs to be intentional and planned to be successful. Change can be an untidy process, but it needs not to be disorderly. Surprisingly, not all businesses know how to plan and manage innovation: only 56 per cent of CEOs say they are 'successful' at it, and 40 per cent says they are 'not good' at turning ideas into profits. Creative workforce, creative leaders, innovation culture, and innovation management. The ecosystem of creativity in business demands also the strong creative workforce, creative leaders, dynamic corporate innovation culture, and effective mechanism for managing innovation. Creative workforce is a source of innovation. Creative leaders drive innovation. Innovation culture is a prerequisite for creativity. And, the innovation management is its know-how. Government policy. It also needs the government's policy for securing a creativity-conducive environment, with investments into education for creativity, and in research anddevelopment being the main aspects of it. Alla Tkachuk is the Founder of the MASK School for Creativity and Innovation (SCAI) that seeks partners in Kenya, contact@mobileartschoolinkenya.org