Murang&rsquo;a residents say they will vote against politicians who incite or engage in violence.They walked five kilometres on Sunday to advocate peaceful campaignsThe residents criticised recent confrontations between supporters of Governor Mwangi Wairia and his main rival Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau. Tension has been building following a series of public exchanges and bitter rivalry between Wairia and Kamau.They said everyone stands to lose if politicians are allowed to play violent politics. The residents said they will not tolerate leaders who disrupt their businesses by causing havoc.&ldquo;We have come out today to tell our aspirants that we want our county to have peace, regardless of the seats they are vying for,&rdquo; said Karanja Mburu, who led the walk from Mukuyu trading centre to Murang&rsquo;a town.Two weeks ago, Kamau accused the governor of trying to block the launch of his manifesto and governor&rsquo;s bid. The county government poured 110 tonnes of manure in three public grounds where Kamau had planned the launch. It went ahead.Manure sagaThe manure was dumped at Murang&rsquo;a University, Mumbi Grounds and Ihura Stadium. The administration said it wanted to landscape and upgrade the sites.The launch was to take place in Mumbi Grounds. The Murang&rsquo;a University field is used as a landing pad for choppers when leaders visit Murang&rsquo;a. It took the intervention of security personnel guarding Mumbi Grounds on a 24-hour basis to stop more manure being offloaded in the field. On November 25, a Murang&rsquo;a court issued an injunction to stop the launch. But Kamau went to the High Court in Nairobi, where he secured an order allowing him to go ahead with it.The launch proceeded peacefully on November 26 in Mumbi Grounds, where 10 tonnes of manure had been dumped. Two weeks before the manifesto launch, four of their supporters were arrested and charged with incitement after a confrontation at a fundraiser in Maragua.On November 29, President Uhuru Kenyatta urged county leaders to stop fighting and playing dirty tricks and to campaign like adults. He said there is no need for leaders to engage in physical fights and insults, when they should simply market their development agenda. Uhuru urged youth to stop letting leaders use them to cause violence. &ldquo;When they address you, just listen and make your independent decision. Don&rsquo;t allow them to use you to cause violence,&rdquo; he said. Karanja warned politicians of the power of the vote and said they will not vote for the leader who outdoes others in fights and in spreading propaganda.&ldquo;We want all the leaders to ask for our votes peacefully by outlining what they have already achieved and what they intend to do for the locals when elected,&rdquo; he said. No disruptive politicsKaranja said hopefuls should be role models to their supporters, adding that if they observe peace, their fans will follow suit. He also urged residents, and especially the clergy, to pray for peace.&ldquo;I am especially appealing to all youths to keep away from leaders who intend to use them to disturb the peace during campaigns because if violence erupts, we will all lose,&rdquo; Karanja said. Imam Abdullahi Ali condemned disruptive politics by local leaders. &ldquo;We want these bad politics to cease and aspirants to create a conducive environment to ask for support,&rdquo; he said. Ali said life for the people of Murang&rsquo;a county will go on after the elections and residents will work with the leaders who will be voted in, regardless of who they support now.&ldquo;We will work with the police to ensure individuals who intend to cause violence are apprehended before they commit crime,&rdquo; he said.