Is lawyer Evans Monari, who sits in the IEBC selection panel, related to Margaret Shava, a candidate for IEBC chairperson, who is also said top be President Uhuru Kenyatta&rsquo;s cousin? Well, Corridors has it that Monari is married to Shava&rsquo;s sister. There are concerns that the conflict of interest was not disclosed during the shortlisting and interview process. But it was Oliver Kisaka and Consolata Nkatha Bucha who shocked a section of the panel. During the interview, Kisaka allegedly said the outgoing IEBC chiefs deserve another term after &ldquo;performing very well under a very difficult and complex environment in 2013&rdquo;. His response prompted the panel to inquire why he wanted the job. Nkatha said the problems bedeviling Kenya&rsquo;s electoral processes are never caused by the election management agencies, but by the political party that refuses to accept the results. There is a feeling some applicants have already taken political sides well before their appointment.******A senior detective at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations is at the centre of the Sh2.4 billion Lavington property land-grab case. The seven-acre property next to the Muthangari police station has Nairobi&rsquo;s land-grabbing cartel licking their lips as they dream of free billions. They have recruited the senior detective for protection and even efforts by the genuine owner to use his land have been frustrated. Corridors has learnt the top cop has issued strict orders the grabbers be protected at any cost.*****A man claiming to be a police officer attached to the Presidential Escort unit yesterday posted a threatening message targetted at Suna East MP Junet Mohamed and Mbita MP Millie Odhiambo in a move that has triggered outrage at blatant impunity. The alleged officer, who goes by the name Kipchirchir Alfie, was photographed displaying bullets in his hands in a Facebook post that appears to insinuate that three bullets would be used to gun down Junet while the rest - over 25 - would be used on Millie. &ldquo;Tatu ni za Junet, the rest are for Millie Mabona,&rdquo; he posted. According to his information on his timeline, the man has worked as Police Field Commander at the Kenya Police Training College, Kiganjo. He went to Meteitei High School in Nandi county.*****A section of elders and leaders from Homa Bay county are toying with a suggestion of bringing in a neutral person for the post of governor.The mission is aimed at ending the tension and fights currently being witnessed between the supporters of incumbent Cyprian Awiti, Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga and businessman Sammy Wakiaga.