The opening round of the 2017 Kenya National Rally Championship will be held on January 28 at Vipingo Mombasa Cement, according to officials.While making the announcement, Mombasa Motor Club chairman, Roy McKenzie, said reconnaissance and scrutineering will take place a day earlier. The rally, which will run exclusively on private land, will feature a competitive mileage of approximately 160km.MMC have over the years explored unique terrain across the vast coastal region, having staged the 2016 edition in Wundanyi, where Flying Finn Tapio Laukkanen emerged winner.In 2015, the event was held on private land at Rukinga Ranch near Voi, where Jassi Chatthe emerged victor. Carl &lsquo;Flash&rsquo; Tundo won the 2014 edition in Malindi with Ian Duncan racking up victory in 2013 in Kilifi. Kwale played host to the 2012 edition with former Club chairman Alastair Cavenagh emerging winner.This year&rsquo;s edition promises to be a scintillating sea level experience and has attracted top driver including Laukkanen, Carl Tundo, Ian Duncan, Baldev Chager, Onkar Singh Rai and Tejveer Rai.Tapio, who is the defending champion of the Mombasa event, will be unveiling his new car in a few weeks. Rumour has it that he will be tackling the new season at the wheels of a Mitsubishi Evolution X R4 car. His Subaru GVB 13 has since swept the ground with all his opponents over the past two seasons.Elsewhere, Cardiff-based Imran Mogul has confirmed participation in the Mombasa Rally. A few weeks after relocating to Cardiff, Lota Motorsports driver, promised to take part in a few events next season prior to securing a buyer for his ex-Naishad Kara Subaru N12. Mogul will fly in for three days to participate in the season opener at Vipingo Mombasa Cement on January 28. &ldquo;We might do a few rallies next season. I&rsquo;m not sure about Safari as hopefully, we will be rallying in Cardiff.&rdquo;Meanwhile, Manmeet Singh Puee better known as &lsquo;Vicky Singh&rsquo; has acquired the Delights Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution 10 ahead of the new season.The Mombasa-based Team Nanak Engineering driver, however, confirmed that he will be skipping the season-opening home rally at Vipingo Mombasa Cement due to personal commitments. Vicky&rsquo;s Evolution was previously driven by Raaji Singh Bharij in the KNRC and most recently by Asad Anwar in the Autocross championship.