In an obscene posting, Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has threatened to insert a broken bottle into Mbita lawmaker Millie Odhiambo for insulting the President.On his official Facebook account, Kuria on Tuesday night castigated Odhiambo for earlier calling Uhuru Kenyatta "a fake President" who rigged the last election.Kuria, notorious for offensive comments, said Odhiambo had "crossed the red line" and told her to "keep off Parliament."He posted in English, "You have pushed our patience to the end. Last year you got your way through removing your smelly panties to suffocate us with the repugnant stench of your maggot-infested things. Today you have crossed the red line disrespecting the lawful authority of the land. Now no one will have a reason to blame me. Keep away from Parliament. I will insert a broken beer [bottle] deep down that Mbita stinking chieth."On Tuesday, Odhiambo said, "Uhuru should start packing for his journey back to Gatundu as he is a fake President, as his own backyard is poor. We have come here prepared for death and we are going to Canaan not back to Egypt."Kuria also criticised ODM for temporarily blocking controversial amendments to the new election laws in a tumultuous session on Tuesday night. ODM says the changes will weaken election laws and allow Jubilee to rig the polls."So ODM (Not Cord) imagines they can frustrate parliamentary democracy through violent takeover of parliament? Surely is this civilised? What happened to parliamentary democracy where we decide matters through voting?" he posted.Efforts to reach Kuria for comments on his post were unsuccessful. He did not respond to questions texted to him.The opposition opposes various proposed amendments, notably one that would give the electoral body the powers to revert to a manual system of voting, tabulation and transmission if technology fails during the election next year.It also opposes an amendment to increase the number of voters per polling station from 500 to 700.On Tuesday, Odhiambo told Uhuru to stop harassing Kenyans by barring MPs from accessing Parliament for the special sitting. Parliament had been sealed off with heavy security, including water cannons. MPs had to walk a distance but were not barred.She said the President rigged the 2013 general election and was therefore not elected.Read: [VIDEO] Kenyans react to Millie Odhiambo's remarks that Uhuru is 'a fake President'More of this: [VIDEO] Parliament buildings blockaded by police, MPs forced to walk ahead of IEBC sittingKuria is facing three cases on hate speech , incitement to violence and ethnic contempt.