Nyanza and Western MPs have condemned the fist fight between Homa Bay Town MP Opondo Kaluma and his rival Washington Ogaga in front of ODM party leader Raila Odinga on Sunday.The leaders yesterday told the Star the incident was irresponsible and embarrassing. Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale called the fight stupid. He said no one will win election by fighting.Kaluma was kicked, punched and wrestled to the ground by Ogaga. Trouble started before Raila arrived at the event to mark the second anniversary of former Senator Otieno Kajwang&rsquo;s death in Waondo, Mbita constituency. It escalated after his arrival.Khalwale said such behaviour does not reflect the kind of leadership voters wants. &ldquo;It&rsquo;s embarrassing to us, leaders, and our supporters. We must avoid such non-beneficial acts and focus on changing the lives of those who elected us,&rdquo; he said.Vihiga nominated MCA Ben Ombima condemned the fight, saying it embarrassed the party.Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi said any form of violence is unacceptable, as it tarnishes the party&rsquo;s image. He said the fight is a disciplinary matter that will be handled by the right party organs.&ldquo;No one found culpable will be spared. Appropriate action will be taken accordingly,&rdquo; he said.Could be disqualifiedODM has said it will take stern action against those responsible for the chaos that marred its rally. Chief Executive Officer Oduor Ong&rsquo;wen and national chairman John Mbadi said eight culprits have been identified and investigations are ongoing.Ong&rsquo;wen said the eight, whom he did not name, will face the ODM disciplinary committee and their names submitted to the party&rsquo;s National Elections Board. Consequences will include being barred from using the ODM ticket in the 2017 general election, he said on a Mayienga Radio show on Tuesday morning.Ong&rsquo;wen said the incident tainted Raila&rsquo;s image. &ldquo;ODM is not taking the issue lightly. Those found culpable will definitely be disqualified from using the party ticket in future elections,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;We are focused on peaceful nominations and campaigns. The party cannot tolerate acts of violence.&rdquo;Mbadi urged sitting leaders and hopefuls to desist from acts of hooliganism. He said it was quite unfortunate that a peaceful rally turned chaotic. &ldquo;We will investigate and ensure those responsible are dealt with accordingly,&rdquo; he told the Star on the phone.Luo Council of Elders chairman Opiyo Otondi and Homa Bay ODM chairperson Gladys Wanga also condemned the fight. Otondi said it paints a bad image of the community. &ldquo;It is unfortunate that leaders who should demonstrate good morals to our people are the ones engaging in fiasco. They are damaging the name of our community,&rdquo; he said.Summoned by policeOtondi said squabbles among leaders from the community hurt Raila&rsquo;s chances of clinching the presidency. &ldquo;I&rsquo;m convening a meeting for Luo elders to discuss this issue. We would want our people to vote out violent politicians during elections,&rdquo; he added.Wanga said they have discussed the matter with the party Elections Board for appropriate action. &ldquo;We don&rsquo;t want ODM to be associated with hooliganism. Homa Bay party leadership condemns the act in the strongest terms possible. We don&rsquo;t want a reccurrence of the same,&rdquo; she said. Kabondo-Kasipul MP Silvance Osele echoed the sentiments.Meanwhile, county police commander John Omusanga has given Kaluma and Ogaga 24 hours to record statements.He said the two risk being arrested if they fail to respond to the summonses. Omusanga said they have enough information about the fiasco hence, the duo must report to police.&ldquo;Our preliminary reports show the two leaders were directly engaged in causing chaos during the public rally. We want them to record statements to enable us to carry out investigations, failing which we will enforce the law in dealing with them,&rdquo; he said.Omusanga warned politicians against perpetrating violence, saying they will be dealt with accordingly.But Kaluma and Ogaga said the police are yet to contact them to record statements. &ldquo;Unless I receive official communication from the police, I&rsquo;ll not record a statement,&rdquo; Kaluma said.Ogaga said he will comply once notified. The two said they have reconciled.