Football legend has diabetic complicationsWhile most Kenyans have been making merry and celebrating whyile enjoying their holidays, Kenyan football legend Joe Kadenge has been spending the better part of the festive season on a hospital bed suffering from complications related to diabetes. Kadenge was rushed to Nairobi South &ldquo;B&rdquo;&rsquo;s Meridien Hospital by former AFC Leopards players George Sunguti and Reginald Asibwa on Monday, December 26th (Boxing Day)and was admitted after his condition worsened.His third borne son Wycliff Kadenge says they took &ldquo;mzee&rdquo; whose eyesight has been failing to Kikuyu hospital on December 23 and returned home after check up.&ldquo;His condition was a bit stable but he was again rushed to Mater hospital in South &ldquo;B&rdquo; on the (December) 24th and 25th for further medication, after he became weak and could not even eat. He was admitted on Monday&rdquo;. The former Kenya Harambee Stars&rsquo; dazzling ball juggling right winger&rsquo;s wife Mary has been by his side since then feeding and taking care of him since. He has been drifting in and out of consciousness, and does not recognise people around him. This is the second time the former Kenya and Ingwe forward has been hospitalised in the last two months. He collapsed due to fatigue, while watching a Nationwide league match at Nairobi&rsquo;s Camp Toyoyo Jericho between Wazito and Nzoia United on October 12 and was rushed by ambulance to the Metropolitan hospital. Wycliffe told The Star his father&rsquo;s doctors they have been trying to control the legend&rsquo;s blood pressure and hopes to stabilise him after getting medication. The doctor says he still needs close monitoring and coult not confirm when he will be discharged.Sunguti, who is helping in co-ordinating assistance from friends and relatives, also confirmed the soccer great needs good rest and people around him. &ldquo;Mzee is tired and weak and does not recognise most of the people around him, but at least he responds to close family and friends especially his wife Mary and sons,&rdquo; said Sunguti.Sunguti says the former dribbling wizard made famous by radio football broadcasters with the &ldquo;Kadenge na mpira&rdquo; phrase that was as famous as the national team itself, was the darling of the crowds. Those who watched him drew great inspiration and he attracted a great love for the game from upcoming footballers from all corners of the country.&ldquo;He needs prayers and support from the government and the whole footballing world at this difficult moment. We need to pray for him,&rdquo; said Sunguti.The 81year old had a colourfull career with Harambee Stars for a period spanning 14 years, and represented Maragoli United and Abaluhya FC currently renamed AFC Leoprads. He won the Kenyan Premier League in 1966. The octogenarian also coached Harambee Stars in 2002.Kadenge used to run a taxi cab where he also drove his clients around and about. He however, has had to give that up in the last eight months, owing to his failing eyesight after eye surgery according to Wycliff.The football world has shown solidariy with him on social media with goodwill messages as the legend remains in hospital. Kadenge is widely considered Kenya&rsquo;s most accomplished, if not most popular footballer, of all time.