There was a time in this country when the voice of the Church was a powerful agent and catalyst of political and social change.The clergy was the moral compass of the nation. It was the voice of the poor, the underprivileged and the disabled. We remember with nostalgia the courageous voices of men of God such as Archbishop Ndingi Mwana a&rsquo;Nzeki, Archbishop David Gitari, Bishop Alexander Muge, Father John Kaiser, Bishop Henry Okullu, Bishop Lawi Imathiu, the Reverend Timothy Njoya and many others.They were fierce defenders of human rights and democracy and resolute crusaders against corruption. Though many of these men have since retired and or died, the generation of men and women of the cloth that succeeded them appears to have gone silent and others become compromised. Powerful institutions such as the National Council of Churches of Kenya and the Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops are rarely heard.Other than the weekly columns written by Fr Gabriel Dolan, Fr Dominic Wamugunda and the Rev David Oginde, the clergy have gone mute. The 2007 general election in an unprecedented move saw the clergy openly take sides between the incumbent PNU side and the opposition ODM. The result was a tragic electoral dispute that broke out in a frenzy of post-election violence leading to deaths, destruction of property and displacement of hundreds of thousands of people.As we approach the 2017 polls, politicians are busy polarising the country with negative ethnic rhetoric, chest-thumping, brinkmanship, hate speech and veiled threats. The only voice being heard speaking against these is that of Francis ole Kaparo of the National Cohesion and Integration Commission.The clergy is eerily silent, while openly welcoming and receiving donations from the same politicians in harambees. One can&rsquo;t help wondering whether we learnt anything from the tragic events of 2007. The script leading to 2017 is uncannily similar to that of 2007, yet the clerics appear to have turned both a blind eye and deaf ear. They have gone a stage further and got themselves a place at the banquet table of the IEBC Selection Panel. They even extended the largesse to give a place to a Muslim and a Hindu for good measure, or to disguise their intentions. How they will disentangle themselves in the event of an election dispute is anyone&rsquo;s guess.Religious groups were at the forefront of the push for constitutional reforms. They fought and successfully managed to reduce the powers of the President. They have always played an important role, mostly as mediators and also as advocates of social change and justice. They acted as our collective conscience and often kept political leaders on their toes. The only time politicians feel threatened is when the religious leaders speak out. Politicians are aware religious leaders have a big following.Kenya has in the recent past been inundated with cases of alleged grand corruption. The voice of the Church has been woefully wanting. A significant voice in the war on corruption has been stilled. Many are not convinced the Church is suddenly contented with preaching only.Corruption is thriving in &lsquo;the prosperity gospel&rsquo; as more religious leaders join politics. Could this be a sign of compromise, and that they are also joining the gravy train? Otherwise why do they appear to have abandoned their flock in the face of these challenges? Who will look after the sheep now that the shepherds are lost? As we proceed into the Christmas festive season, it is imperative that we take stock and figure out where we lost course.