So what is it about? This is a letter to the students currently studying medicine or nursing in Kenya. It is also a letter to those in high school, aspiring to be future nurses or doctors. It is a letter to those parents and guardians who desire that their kids will be nurses and doctors when they grow up. It is a letter to those who finance their education. It is a letter to all of us.As a future doctor or nurse, you should be a worried lot. If I were you, I would not be rejoicing at this strike. Not because the calling demands allegiance to the Hippocratic Oath, but because as a rational human being, I seek to save my own life first.But how can I not rejoice, you may ask? How can I not, when I know that my first salary will be in the range of Kshs 400,000? When I know that this will immediately place me in the upper middle class of our society? When I know that banks will be falling over themselves to finance me to buy that coveted car, house, land and private tuition for my kids? If these are your only perspectives, go ahead and throw a party. But make merry only on two accounts ceteris paribus (other conditions remaining the same): (i) if the government acquiesces to the demands being made; and (ii) if you have a letter of employment in your hand as you read this. I&rsquo;ll tell you for free, don&rsquo;t be suckered into this.Your union officials have wooed you to support the strike with the disguised fallacy that they are doing this for you. They are demanding a minimum gross wage of Kshs 447,000 and Kshs 1,276,000 per month (inclusive of allowances) for the lowest and highest paid doctor, respectively. This is a 300% increment from Kshs 195,910 and Kshs 396,060, respectively (Daily Nation NewsPlex Dec 13th, 2016 ).Let me educate you on something they don&rsquo;t teach you in medical or nursing school. The only beneficiaries of this strike or any strike, are the labor cartels, fondly christened as Unions. Unions are like parasites. They get fed but they end up eating the host. You, are that host. Here&rsquo;s how:Unions create unemployment.How, you ask? Think of the various cadres in your profession as a ladder. When the minimum wage is raised, it cuts off the bottom rungs of the ladder. This means that no doctor would be hired below Kshs 396,060 threshold.The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends an optimal ratio of 2.3 per 1,000 of health workforce-to-population. (World Health Report 2006: Working Together for health to highlight the global health workforce crisis). The 2011 WHO Global Health Workforce Statistics reported that Kenya&rsquo;s ratio is 0.2 per 1,000 population. To meet this deficit, 1,200 doctors need to be hired annually over the next four years. (This figure does not include the required nurses and midwives).An estimated 5,000 doctors work in the public sector (KNBS 2015 ). At the demanded minimum wage, the monthly total wage bill will be an estimated Kshs 2 billion. If we add the requisite 1,200 additional doctors, the wage bill will rise to Kshs 2.5 billion.The outcome of this would be that fewer doctors would be hired on any given year to maintain or reduce the wage bill. Hence the unemployment rate in the public service of qualified doctors would naturally rise.If you were in Prof. Walter Block&rsquo;s class, he would tell you politely that it is a misnomer for you to think that the minimum wage is a floor; and that when the wages rise, the floor also rises. It is NOT a floor. It is a barrier of entry into employment. Did you know that even though you would be willing to accept a lower rate than the minimum, you could not be employed, because your employer would be breaking the law?As Henry Hazlitt would educate you better than I can, employees that mass picket are in essence withholding their labor, while contending that they are the only legitimate &lsquo;owners&rsquo; of those jobs; and that they have the right to prevent anybody else from taking the jobs they have abandoned.In the academic year 2015/2016, you are among the roughly 3,500 medicine and surgery students who will graduate but most likely remain unemployed. I hope you are beginning to see that the only beneficiaries of these demands are the current members of your union and their officials. Unions create misallocation of labourA study done ten years ago on the cost of health professionals brain drain in Kenya found that the cost of educating a single medical doctor is US$ 65,997 and US$ 43,180 for a nurse; and for every doctor and nurse who emigrates, Kenya loses about US$ 517,931 and US$ 338,868, worth of returns from investment, respectively. [The cost of health professionals&rsquo; brain drain in Kenya: BMC Health Services Research 2006: Kirigia et al].Scarcity is a reality of life. That is why rational beings allocate the available resources. If this is what it costs to educate you, and given what it will additionally cost the employer to pay you upon graduating, the rational thing for him to do is train fewer of your kind.If you are among those who cannot afford private tuition, then your valid dream of becoming a doctor suddenly becomes a mirage. Being the judicious person I know you are, you will naturally divert your passion to other professions.What unions will not tell you, but Ludwig Von Mises will for free, is that their intention is to create a monopoly of labor in certain sectors in order to get a higher monopoly price. But by doing so, they regulate the supply by restricting membership, hence excluding all other workers in that sector who are not its paid up members. He likens this to a cartel that destroys the excess product they trade in because they wish to take advantage of an inelastic demand curve.Should you choose to actualize your dream through private tuition, hoping to sell your skills in the public service space, you would be a &lsquo;surplus&rsquo; product; a &lsquo;waste&rsquo; in the excessive production of your kind, at the expense of other &lsquo;products&rsquo; that could have been &lsquo;produced&rsquo;.If you are still in support of this strike, you and the labor cartels would be contributing in subverting attainment of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) because this misallocation of labor also means that there will not be enough doctors trained to meet the threshold required to cover the population with essential health services. Unions veil the opportunity costGiven the fervor and public clamor of your support for this strike, and this being a period to woo voters, you are likely to succeed in arm twisting the government to acquiesce. BRAVO!! REALLY? Do you think you have won? Remember, in any fight no matter if you win or lose, you still get blood on yourself. What blood, you may be asking?Remember we have established that scarcity is a fact of life. As a rational consumer, you compare prices to your income and only buy those goods and services that you are able to pay for. I will assume that you love both books and movies. So if you spend more on books, you will have to spend less on movies. The opportunity foregone as a consumer is clearly visible.Regrettably, the same cannot be said of &lsquo;political goods&rsquo;. Yes. In this season, you are only valued as a political good by those in the political class purporting to support your cause. The benefits of political goods are readily evident but the costs are not. If the government gives in to your demands, the equivalent of the 300% increment will be re-directed from a different service or good that must be foregone. This could be the construction of the road to your village that you have been clamoring for. You will constantly wonder and perhaps complain loudly and on social media about broken promises by government. But as you do, remember you will be carrying that road in your wallet that could have benefited all the members of your village, but will now only &lsquo;benefit&rsquo; you and the banks that have preyed on your &lsquo;road&rsquo; in exchange for that coveted car which you now cannot drive to go see your grandmother; because the &lsquo;road&rsquo; is now owned by both you and your bank. Should you fail to honor your obligations, the bank will not only fully own the &lsquo;road&rsquo;, but auction you too. Unions promote Robin Hood EconomicsSo your union is making demands to government to increase your salary. Very well. But have you stopped to wonder where your employer gets the resources to pay your salary? Or pay for your education?He relies on my honesty, goodwill and hard work to pay you. That&rsquo;s right. Should I choose to withhold these good virtues that my mother inculcated in me, no amount of strikes will get you a pay hike.You are both a consumer and a voter. Each time you purchase goods and services, you are voting for that product with your money. And you can spread your &lsquo;votes&rsquo; across several choices. Unfortunately, in politics you only have one vote. You only get your choice if enough of the rest of us agree with your choice. Those of us that do not agree, comply with the sovereignty of your choice through tacit consent. This is how your employer is able to forcefully, but legally extract a percentage of my hard earned money to meet your demands.Let me educate you, using the Laffer Curve, on the consequences of your demands. The higher your employer taxes me to meet your demands, the less the incentive for me to work hard; and hence the lower the revenue he will be able to forcefully extract from me. The lower he also taxes me, the less revenue he will get because his forceful extraction can only realize so much revenue. So can you see this vicious cycle? Your employer needs not only to negotiate with your union on your behalf, but he also needs to negotiate tacitly with me on a reasonable percentage that will not impact on my current productivity.Oh! by the way, the next time there is a public service strike by a different sector, I hope you will appreciate that you Paul, will be &lsquo;robbed&rsquo; by your employer, to pay Peter. I would love to continue educating you on the impossibility of economic calculation by your union because they do not own any factors of production, to quantify the demands to your employer; or the inability of your union to calculate the marginal revenue product (MRP) for you to understand that wage rates are actually prices and like all other prices, they are derived by supply and demand which is influenced by the MRP; or of your union&rsquo;s Orwellian Double Think mentality.But recall what I told you earlier about scarcity. Yes. Even the writing space in newspapers is no exception.I know your boss of all unions will probably read this (I sincerely hope he does), and call me shenzi many times over. But you know what? Facts are stubborn things.Now that we have come this far together, are you still picketing?