Elders in Mumias want Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali (pictured), MP aspirants Rashid Mohamed and Stanley Livondo to stop stirring up political intolerance. Elders have accused the three of being behind the wave of violence in the region and asked why police are not keen on even investigating them. They said the three are giving the area a bad name by taking advantage of jobless youths whom they pay with liquor and cash to cause havoc. They accused the three of using local journalists as their mouthpiece and using a news blackout to silence anyone challenging them. The elders have warned that if police fail to act, they will take the law into their own hands and teach the divisive MPs a lesson. They also said they will vote out the MPs and their financiers.***** A brother of a vocal legislator from Northeastern is said to be using the politician&rsquo;s name to enjoy impunity in the villages. They own businesses in the region and can flex financial muscle in the remote villages. However, the villagers are reluctant to explain how the family built its empire and exactly how they generate revenue. The brother has been shielded by his brother and would be prosecuted, even when he breaks the law. The family&rsquo;s business interests extend across the border and into Somalia.***** A Jubilee governor is said to be fearful after it became clear the new election laws might bar him from contesting. The flamboyant governor is known to stand by his comments and does not play sycophancy politics. He criticises where he thinks criticism is due and speaks his mind. In the 2013 elections, he was disliked by a relative of one of the executives. However, he could not be tamed due to his experience in politics, closeness to wananchi and his cash. The county boss, after meeting his political advisers, is said to have retreated on his stand. He now says the new law might expose aspirants to manipulation, if one party continues to remain strong in the region. He is considering joining Kanu.***** As the chaos was enveloping the National Assembly over the controversial amendments to election laws, some people were following the developments with keen interest. Corridors has it that two members of the IEBC selection panel celebrated openly and almost caused a stampede as they got information that the MPs allied to Jubilee had forced through the changes. Among other things, these virtually kill campaign finance regulations and allow for manual backup of electronic voter identifcation and transmisson if electronic systems fail next year. The two Jubilee-leaning panelists literally stopped the proceedings of the panel, just to announce that Jubilee had carried the day.