IT is no secret that Nairobi-based businessman Sam Mburu has had Deputy President William Ruto&rsquo;s ear for years now in regards to Nakuru politics. Insiders in Nakuru politics have told Corridors that many politicians are concerned over how Mburu appears to be exercising power and influence in Jubilee Party matters in the county without holding an official position. Even more puzzling for Nakuru politicians, especially those close to Governor Kinuthia Mbugua, is the manner in which Ruto has been consulting with Mburu and Nakuru Assembly Speaker Susan Kihika (pictured) on JP matters. Kihika wants to oust Mbugua next year and some say it was Mburu&rsquo;s influence that saw her included in the Jubilee Party presidential campaign team.THAT the 2017 campaigns are about to start in earnest is what many people are looking forward to. Jubilee supporters are gearing up for a &ldquo;harvest season&rdquo; and are doing all manner of things to ensure that they get their share. From setting up lobby groups to registering companies to supply all manner of election materials, JP supporters are offering those with influence all manner of things to help them get some cash. What is sickening, however, are the sexual favours that are being sought (and offered) in the process! MURANG&rsquo;A politics keeps surprising many who had concluded that they were frontrunners for various seats. Word now is that lawyer Nyokabi Kamotho, daughter of former minister and Kanu strongman the late Joseph Kamotho, is thinking of standing for a seat representing Mathioya in Murang&rsquo;a county. She becomes the second child of a former powerful minister to show an interest in joining elective politics. The other is a son of the late Transport minister John Michuki, Raymond, who is said to be seeking to join the governor race. The entrance of what are seen as &ldquo;dynasties&rdquo; into the Murang&rsquo;a politics is causing some sleepless nights among power brokers in the county. LUHYA elders have put leaders who will miss the Kakamega rally organised by Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli on notice. They have pointed out Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali and his Matungu counterpart David Were as being used to divide the Luhya nation. Those who will skip the event will also be isolated. They say it&rsquo;s the first time a person who is not a politician has come out to unite the Luhya nation - and leaders must cooperate.