Candidates seeking to replace outgoing IEBC chairman Issack Hassan yesterday challenged petitions blocking their hiring on claims of unsuitability and lack of integrity to oversee the August 2017 polls.The IEBC selection panel, chaired by Bernadette Musundi, received petitions challenging the hiring of the candidates on grounds of alleged unethical conduct.Former Mombasa Mayor Taib Ali Taib was the first to be interviewed. He challenged a petition from his former client, demanding Sh229,000 awarded to him in an assault case in 1991.Mohamed Baishe, a resident of Lamu county, said he did not receive the money because Taib &ldquo;abandoned me&rdquo; after winning the case.Taib said he represented Baishe and his wife after being assaulted by a police officer. He told the panel the money has not been released since the court ruling was made.&ldquo;We sued the Ministry of Internal Security and won more than Sh229,000, but the ruling was not effected. We went back to the drawing board and filed the judicial review proceedings,&rdquo; Taib said.EAGER TO LEAD IEBCHe said they obtained orders and were awarded the money but could not get it as the Internal Security PS could not be jailed for defying the ruling.&ldquo;I met Baishe in Mombasa sometime back and informed him about the case progress. The case is coming in February next year for payment of more than Sh1 million,&rdquo; Taib said. He said he is eager to lead the electoral commission to restore its integrity and independence. Candidate Florence Mwangangi was accused of irregularly pocketing thousands of shillings in sitting allowances while serving in the JSC for meetings not convened.The International Policy Group, chaired by Kenneth Otieno, said Mwangangi does not qualify because a Parliamentary Accounts Committee report recommended she takes personal responsibility, together with other JSC members, to repay the money. &ldquo;My conscience is very clear. I am a person of integrity. I have never been paid or even have an iota of being paid for a sitting I did not attend,&rdquo; she said.&ldquo;I have not even at one time been called by Parliament or investigative agencies, including the EACC, to answer to such financial queries in the JSC.&rdquo;No petitions were filed against the other three candidates &ndash; Wanyonyi Chebukati from Trans Nzioa, Tukero ole Kina from Kilifi and Lucas Naikuni from Narok county.