Today, the world celebrates World Aids Day. This is the day that everyone takes time to learn more about HIV/Aids and what comes with it.Many people across the globe are living with the virus and are living proof that one can live for years with it and still have a normal life.With the right medication, support from the society and acceptance, the world can be a better place as efforts to minimize new infections are upped.Read: Kenya donates Sh500m to fight HIV-AidsMany people have told their life stories living with HIV/Aids. It&#39;s surely not an easy road as many have not come to terms with the fact that there is no cure for it. Some are also arrogant about learning the risks of getting infected with HIV and how to deal with it.Doreen Moraa is a 24-year-old Kenyan lady who was born with HIV. Her parents are a discordant couple, meaning one of her parents is HIV positive(+) and the other one is HIV negative(-). She comes from a family of five siblings, but one died a few years back. She is the only child in her family living with the virus.She first found out she was positive in 2004 when she was in Standard Seven. Her parents did not tell her upfront. She found out about it after she overheard a conversation between her mother and a doctor.At first she was in denial and couldn&#39;t let herself agree that she was actually positive, but later on, her mother disclosed the news to her in a hospital with a doctor present to explain to her everything about HIV.Read also: Children, adolescents hardest hit by HIV/Aids - UnicefDuring an interview with The Star, she said that her journey has been a rollercoaster of good, bad and ugly times, but her parents have always been there to support her and give her a helping hand.Out there, it&#39;s been totally different for her, considering how many people have an ugly perception in regards to HIV positive people.The virus has barred her from doing things she loves like travelling the world, considering there are countries that bar people living with the virus from entering the country.Stigmatisation has also been really ugly for her as she says that it starts &quot;right from your family because if your family cannot support you or give you a helping hand, then the world out there will be even more harsh.&quot;People&#39;s perception on her living with HIV has been rather confusing. Her brothers actually thought that their parents loved her more than they loved them and they felt as if all the attention was been given to her, leaving them feeling as though they are not special.Away from home, people think she is a really strong person after she came out and announced her status.Doreen&#39;s dating life has not been easy because telling someone your status is rather scary because you are afraid of their reaction. She once dated a guy whom she disclosed her status to.Read also: Abject poverty fuels HIV-Aids infections in Mavoko&rsquo;s forgotten slums, NGO saysAt first, he thought she was joking and so they went to get tested together. She came out positive and the guy was negative. He was shocked and couldn&#39;t speak on their way home. With that, she feels challenged to disclose her status to someone because of their reaction.As she goes about her life and learning to deal with her status, she set up a group called Hope Alive. It is comprised of young people who spread the word that living positively is not the end of the world.She hopes that one day someone will look at her and say that she made them come out and disclose their status.She also disclosed that the world has been fighting the virus when all along stigma is what kills many people out there.Doreen believes that she is among God&#39;s toughest soldiers.Read: &#39;My 17 years with HIV-Aids&#39;Her parents have played a big role during her journey as they encourage her to keep encouraging other people to live positively and with that, she will have given courage to many people to love and accept themselves whole-heartedly.Her initiative #IAMABEAUTIFULSTORY has encouraged people out there to embrace themselves and trying to give them hope that there is a better and brighter tomorrow.Listen to the rest of the inspiring interview below;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;