PEOPLE forget that President Uhuru Kenyatta played rugby in his teens for the St Mary s School, Nairobi, team. The school has a long association with Blackrock College, a Catholic secondary school for boys aged 13-18 in Williamstown, County Dublin, in the Republic of Ireland. None of our presidential candidates for 2017 has immersed himself so completely in any modern tactical sport as Uhuru did in his St Mary s days. His keen interest in the action and strategy of international rugby union has persisted over the years. And he has long brought his tactical experience into play in Presidential elections strategizing after his epic defeat by Mwai Kibaki 14 years ago. In 2013, he went for rugby s element of surprise factor, catching the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy so completely off-guard that their initial reaction was a disbelieving sneer punctuated by hysterical giggling. A Presidential ticket comprising two ICC crimes-against-humanity suspects with cases ongoing in real- time at The Hague looked like a very bad joke indeed. The Africa Report newsmagazine of Paris, edited by Africa Confidential newsletter of London editor Patrick Smith, hit the nail on the head with its final pre-election cover story on the Kenyan Presidential race: Beyond Belief .All signs are that President Kenyatta is dipping into his rugby formbook again in preparation for the fierce race now scheduled for August 8, 2017.And he is acting as he has done before. After losing mightily to Kibaki, when he was neither his own man nor brand, he decided to make a tactical retreat and join coalition politics. In 2007 he put his Presidential ambitions in abeyance and supported President Kibaki s reelection bid. It was the first and only time in Kenya s multiparty politics that the Official Leader of the Opposition had crossed over to a State House incumbent s side. Kibaki s reelection bid culminated in the post-election violence crisis of late 2007 and early 2008, followed swiftly by international mediation led by former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan, the National Accord compromise and the Grand Coalition government. Raila Odinga became only the second Prime Minister since Independence (the first having been Jomo Kenya in 1963-64) and Uhuru became one of two Deputy PMs (the other being Musalia Mudavadi). Uhuru was made minister for Trade and then for Finance, replacing the embattled Amos Kimunya, a Kibaki confidant. He left ministerial office when the International Criminal Court chief prosecutor Luis Moreno-Ocampo came calling with indictments of six Kenyans for crimes against humanity in the matter of the 2007-08 PEV. The Ocampo Six included former Cabinet minister William Ruto. Uhuru remained a DPM until 2013, when he and Ruto did the completely unexpected and joined hands in the union of two brand-new parties, The National Alliance and the United Republican Party, under the umbrella of the Jubilee Alliance.In abandoning Independence party Kanu, which had ruled for 39 years, including Daniel arap Moi s 24 years at State House, Uhuru did the totally unexpected. By allying himself with Ruto on the Presidential ticket of the ICC suspects, Uhuru took used rugby element of surprise as a political game tactic. But instead of being hesitant his Cord opponents began giggling helplessly, almost as if someone were physical y tickling them. They should at least have hesitated and made their defence deeper.As in rugby so in Presidential elections, giggling is neither tactic nor strategy. The UhuRuto win declared by the IEBC was so stunning that it caught Cord in mid-sneer. Raila went straight to the Willy Mutunga Supreme Court, was again declared the loser and then jetted out to South Africa alongside fellow Cord co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang ula, skipping the UhuRuto Inauguration.That was such a show of sour grapes and being bad losers that Raila and Kalonzo made a point of visiting President Kenyatta and Deputy President Ruto at State House, Nairobi, for a photo op full of smiles and laughter.On September 10 this year, UhuRuto pulled another fast one on the massed Opposition, quitting coalition politics by walking out of both TNA and URP and going for the massive Jubilee Party and a Big Tent theme of unity. This happened just as Cord was becoming really comfortable with coalition politics. Unlike the case in 2013, this time Cord became hesitant. But they still failed to make their defence deeper and are creating gaps that are so dangerously wide they could be headed for an even greater upset. Cord s reaction has been to threaten to transform themselves into the National Super Alliance, benchmarking against the National Rainbow Alliance of 2002 that buried both Kanu and Uhuru by uniting behind Kibaki.Besides lacking many of Narc s felicities, Nasa appears to be embarked on a Mission Impossible on the small detail of its Presidential flagbearer. In Raila, Nasa has a far more experienced Presidential candidate than Narc had in Kibaki in 2002 and a winner of more votes in 2013 than Kibaki ever saw toted up to his name. But Kalonzo, Wetang ula and Mudavadi show no signs of lining up behind Raila and a divided Opposition will never trounce UhuRuto.The best a divided Opposition can hope for is denying Uhuru the 50 + 1 victory threshold and forcing a runoff. But Uhuru is already addressing this. On his tour of Central Kenya this week he declared that he and Ruto have no preferred candidates and will not play favourites at any level. Devolution will seriously influence turnout in 2017 and it will be driven by the governor, senator and MCA races, everywhere without exception. Already, the gubernatorial institution and the Senate have attracted major-name players, among them Peter Kenneth, Martha Karua, Jamleck Kamau, Francis Kimemia, Anne Waiguru, David Kimaiyo, Oburu Oginga and Anyang Nyong o. These are races that will be fiercely fought.Cord s mainly ODM s huge effort to make runaway corruption an election issue faltered when Auditor General Edward Ouko demonstrated that corruption is a 47-out-of-47 counties affair and it is useless trying to play holier-than-thou with Kenya s most pressing crisis.Raila made a potentially costly mistake when he jumped to the Cord county governments defence at a time when the President has studiously avoided defending any JP governor, underscoring his stated stance about not playing favourites.Clean nominations and maximum turnouts two things Raila s ODM is not known for will decide Election 17. The question is what kind of rugby tackle Uhuru is contemplating as the man to beat.