Fida has defended the controversial bill that aims to lower the age of sexual consent from 18 to 16.The organisation says the bill seeks to protect teenage boys. Some residents signed a petition seeking to stop Parliament from lowering the age of sexual consent from 18 to 16. Others raised concerns using social media.It is feared the amendment could lead to a rising number of teenage pregnancies and early marriages.Currently, it is a crime to have sexual relations with someone under the age of 18.A person who commits the offence faces a jail term of not less than 15 years. Speaking to the Star yesterday, Fida national chairperson Josephine Mong&rsquo;are said some teenagers have unnecessarily suffered long sentences of between 15 to 20 years.&ldquo;If you do an audit now in our prisons, you will find young boys of 20 and 21 years serving jail terms over sexual offences involving their peers and their life is ruined. This bill is meant to save teenage boys who suffer when it comes to sexual offences,&rdquo; she said.Mong&rsquo;are said the law puts the names of sexual offenders on a permanent register and &ldquo;this has ruined teenagers&rsquo; lives.&rdquo;&ldquo;Once you are profiled on the sexual offenders&rsquo; register, then you are unlucky and limited. Think of a person who is 19 or 20 years old. Their life is ruined because the register is permanent,&rdquo; she said. Mong&rsquo;are said the bill calls for lenience and considers the age gap between the offender and the victim.&ldquo;If the age gap is two or three years, the court will be considerate in passing its judgment and looking at ways to do so without ruining the life of the boy. But if the man is 25 years old and above, the court will be able to determine the person knew he was dealing with a child, and judgment can be passed,&rdquo; she said.The age of consent varies in various countries. In Angola, the age of consent is 12, while in Burkina Faso, it is 13. The proposed change in age is contained in the amendment to the Sexual Offences Act.Mong&rsquo;are said, &ldquo;The boy child has become the unintended victim of the Sexual Offences Act. A lot of teenagers are in relationships without their parents&rsquo; knowledge. If the girl&rsquo;s mother does not like the fact that you have a boyfriend, she goes to the police station and claims rape or defilement.&rdquo; She led a team drafting the amendment.