Veteran politician John Keen was laid to rest at his Namanga home, Kajiado county, yesterday.Keen, 90, died while undergoing treatment at the Aga Khan Hospital, Nairobi. He was buried by his Nyangusi agemates according to his three wishes. Keen was born in Laikipia and was the son of the late Albert Thomas and the late Sarah Tupa from Rumuruti.He made a will that he be buried not later than three days after passing on. Keen also wanted no politics at his burial and directed that he be buried by his agemates.His agemates conducted traditional prayers, braving a heavy downpour not seen in many years in Namanga, before he was finally laid to rest at 2pm.The rain began soon after his body was offloaded from a hearse, going on for about two hours. Elders viewed the rain as a good omen for the family and the Maasai community.Keen played a major role in the attainment of Kenya&rsquo;s Independence. He was part of the Kenyan delegation to Lancaster House, UK, to write the country&rsquo;s first Constitution.Keen, who could crack jokes even in his hospital bed, was fond of referring to his family as the United Nations because his daughters and sons married from different countries.In eulogising the fallen hero, Cord co-principal Raila Odinga said he stood for justice. In a rejoinder to the Election Laws amendment, Raila said The opposition will not go to the streets to seek justice if the government guarantees fairness at the August 8 poll. He said justice is a precursor of peace. Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery said there will be no other alternative for people breaking the law for losing an election. The government, he said, will guarantee fairness at the next election and there should be no cause for alarm. &ldquo;All the players should expect a competitive election and whoever wins should be respected,&rdquo; Nkaissery said.Other leaders present included Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Kajiado Governor David Nkedianye, Senator Peter Mositet, MPs Joseph Manje, Katoo ole Metito, Peris Tobiko, Moses Sakuda and Kanchori Memusi, Justice Isaac Lenaola, politicians Noah Wekesa and Joseph Munyao.