Can anyone really doubt the Kalenjin community is at the crossroads? The ongoing political accusations and counter accusations support this position. The heightened political shenanigans in the Kalenjin heartland have created confusion and a huge divide within the community, which was once a monolithic group.The deafening silence from the Kalenjin Council of Elders is profound and has only increased the confusion. In other communities, the council of elders is beyond reproach. When they speak out on important issues the community listens. They provide direction and mediate for peaceful co-existence. Where did the Kalenjin Council of Elders miss a step? Why don&rsquo;t they speak on the ills that are bedeviling the community? Are they partisan? They are quiet as mudslinging is raging on. The community should do their audit. The elders have abdicated their responsibility! Let me digress a bit.A story is told of a tough old man popularly known as Mengiit (the ram).He had a bushy moustache. He also had a penchant for harassing the young and old. One day, the youth, tired of his mistreatment, decided to smear smelly cheese on his moustache while he took his afternoon nap. When he woke up, his immediate surroundings was smelling. He went out to the living room and the smell followed him. He went outside but the smell was still there. He finally concluded that the whole world stinks. The Kalenjin Nation will have to figure out the moral of this story. What is smelling, is it the community or the Mengiit?The 2013 general election dynamics of six-piece voting will never be repeated. The Kalenjin community, in an unprecedented manner, voted in complete solidarity in this direction. The guiding light was the ICC and the aftermath that the community suffered during the Government of National Unity administration. The 2017 election is around the corner and the ballgame will be totally different. The socio-economic and the priorities of this community will take center stage in determining the geopolitical direction of the elective positions starting from presidential downwards. The realignments, the choice of political representatives and final line up will, determine the direction that the Kalenjin Nation will take going forward. It is, therefore, becoming critical for the Kalenjin to quickly reflect on their current theatre of absurdity, and chart their path to determine their collective political positioning in light with the current and future national political realignments. For that to happen, the ram with a smelly bushy moustache must leave the stage to pave way for nicely smelling ones, untainted by corruption and land grabbing. The community should desist from the politics of &ldquo;Ing&rsquo;een Mengiit&rdquo; (the ram knows it all). The smelly ram has caused enough havoc and that is why the community is eating each others innards (keamkei akutaniik). The &ldquo;House of Myoot&rdquo; is eating itself from the inside out. Its people are busy throwing stones from their glass house. They then turn around and wonder, who is throwing stones at them? The stones are coming from within the house &hellip; We have created the theatre and soap opera that all and sundry have watched in total dismay! Another cannibalistic habit the community has formed is incessant infighting among sub-tribes Under the pretext of age-old sport called &ldquo;cattle rustling&rdquo; which in actual sense is robbery with violence &ndash; the Council of Elders have not intervened.. They are completely blindfolded by the pipers who calls the tune but act totally castrated when it comes to dealing with internal strife. The council of elders has abdicated their roles to the politics of &ldquo;Ingen Mengit&rdquo;. When Tugens and their Pokot neighbours experienced conflict amongst themselves, the council of elders and the church, found binding resolutions. This should be replicated for the current Marakwet and Pokot conflict. The conflict resolution should be led by the right people according to traditions.The council of elders must take their rightful place and provide guidance to the community.