Last week, as we marked Jamhuri Day, President Uhuru Kenyatta cited the ICC as one of the many ways that foreigners have tried to influence the the electoral choice of the Kenyan people. The President reflected on how the ICC treated not only him and Deputy President William Ruto, but also all Kenyans, with contempt. The ICC was being used in the last general election to discourage Kenyans from electing Uhuru and Ruto as their leaders. This failed miserably.It is therefore disturbing that Cord leader Raila Odinga could make the comments he made a day after the President&rsquo;s speech.Raila, a man known to have used unorthodox means to become Prime Minister, said President Uhuru and DP Ruto should never have been free during their ICC trials. He claimed Uhuru and Ruto had committed heinous crimes and deserved to be in jail.How can the former Prime Minister wich a sitting President jaile, even retospectively? Isn&rsquo;t it the highest form of treachery, insincerity and treasonous?Raila hinted he will jail Uhuru and Ruto, mimicking President-elect Donald Trump, who threatened to jail Hillary Clinton during the presidential campaign. Raila should not take Kenyans as fools and think they do not know his antics of trying to get to power through shortcuts. He must remember that even Chapter Six of the Constitution on Integrity couldn&rsquo;t stop the two as the High Court found them fit to standRaila has always tried to get power through shortcuts and this is the same thing he is trying to do with the ICC debate. In 1982, he was arrested as one of the alleged masterminds of the failed coup againstPresident Daniel Moi&rsquo;s government.Before the 2002 elections, he was at it again. He engineered the merger of his LDP with Kanu hoping that President Moi would choose him as his successor. But since very few trust him with power and leadership, Moi picked Uhuru and Raila bolted from the merger.Knowing he could not win the presidency against Uhuru Kenyatta at the 2002 elections, he went behind his colleagues and declared &ldquo;Kibaki Tosha&rdquo; when there was no agreement. His aim was to get into government under Narc, and have Kibaki appoint him as Prime Minister. Since this was not forthcoming, he started fighting the man he had declared &ldquo;Tosha&rdquo; until Kibaki kicked him out of government in 2005. He went out planting seeds of discord, declaring that the 2007 elections would be about 41 communities versus the Kikuyu.And since he was not going to win, the violence that followed the 2007 elections paved way for the Grand Coalition Government where he was Prime Minister. He never intervened when the ICC came in because of the post-election violence as he saw this as an opportunity to eliminate his opponents.Trying to bring up this issue at this time shows just how insincere and dishonest Raila is. He should know that he cannot use the backdoor to get into power again as he did with the Grand Coalition Government.His comments actually confirm the President&rsquo;s fears that some foreigners are out to influence the 2017 election. The ICC is one way and Raila approved this as a tool that should have been used to block his opponents from the presidency.Raila has shown his real intention, which is to take power by all means. And by calling Uhuru and Ruto criminals, he has all intentions of reviving their collapsed ICC cases once he gets into power. Raila should not be allowed to get into power to seek revenge against other people for denying him the presidency through the ballot.The ICC cases collapsed because the court didn&rsquo;t have enough evidence against Uhuru, Ruto and the other four. And with his intention known, all Jubilee supporters must come out in large numbers to vote for Uhuru and avoid hisbeing subjected to humiliation after the election.We should not allow Raila to become a President. He would will use his powers to suppress his political opponents.o influence the choice of the people. The President reflected on how the ICC treated not only him and Deputy President William Ruto, but also all Kenyans with contempt. The ICC was being used in the last election to discourage Kenyans from electing Uhuru and Ruto as their leaders. This failed miserably. It is therefore disturbing that Cord leader Raila Odinga could make the comments he made a day after the President talked.Raila, a man known to have used unorthodox means to become Prime Minister, said President Uhuru and DP Ruto should never have been free during their ICC trials. He claimed Uhuru and Ruto had committed heinous crimes and deserved to be in jail. How can the former Prime Minister threaten a sitting President with jail? Isn&rsquo;t it the highest form of treachery, insincerity and treasonous?Raila just showed he is a populist for insinuating he will jail Uhuru and Ruto, copying from President-elect Donald Trump, who threatened to jail Hillary Clinton during the presidential campaigns. Raila should not think that Kenyans are foolish and that they do not know his antics of trying to get to power through shortcuts. He must remember that even Chapter Six of the Constitution on integrity couldn&rsquo;t stop the two as the High Court found them fit to run.Raila has always tried to get power through shortcuts and this is the same thing he is trying to do with the ICC debate. In 1982, he was arrested as one of the alleged masterminds of the failed coup of retired President Daniel Moi&rsquo;s government.Before the 2002 elections, he was at it again. He engineered the merger of his LDP with Kanu hoping that President Moi would choose him as his successor. But since very few trust him with power and leadership, Moi picked Uhuru and Raila bolted from the merger, after just a few months.Knowing he could not win the presidency against Uhuru Kenyatta at the 2002 elections, he went behind his colleagues and declared &ldquo;Kibaki Tosha&rdquo; when there was no agreement. His aim was to get into government under Narc, and have Kibaki appoint him as Prime Minister.Since this was not forthcoming, he started fighting the man he had declared &ldquo;Tosha&rdquo; until Kibaki kicked him out of government in 2005. He went out planting seeds of discord, declaring that the 2007 elections would be about 41 communities versus Kikuyu.And since he was not going to win, he engineered the violence that followed the 2007 elections paving way for the Grand Coalition Government where he was Prime Minister. He never intervened when ICC came in because of the post-election violence as he saw this as an opportunity to eliminate his opponents. Trying to bring up this issue at this time shows just how insincere and dishonest Raila is. He should know that he cannot use the backdoor to get into power again as he did with the Grand Coalition Government.His comments actually confirm the President&rsquo;s fears that some foreigners are out to influence the 2017 election. The ICC is one way and Raila approved this was a tool that should have been used to block his opponents from the presidency. Raila has shown his real intention, which is to take power by all means. And by calling Uhuru and Ruto criminals, he has all intentions of reviving their collapsed ICC cases once he gets into power. Raila should not be allowed to get into power to seek revenge against other people for denying him the presidency through the ballot.The ICC cases collapsed because the court didn&rsquo;t have enough evidence against Uhuru, Ruto and the other four. And with his intention known, all Jubilee supporters must come out in large numbers to vote for Uhuru and avoid him being subjected to humiliation after the election.We should not allow Raila to be a President, who will use his powers to suppress his political opponents.