On November 23, the Star reported that a contingent of men in GSU uniforms allegedly assaulted and raped a bartender and a fruit vendor during a Tuesday night raid at Allsopps, along the Thika Superhighway. The officers were also accused of physically assaulting business owners and their clients and destroying property estimated in the hundreds of thousands of shillings.During the anti-IEBC demos, Boniface Manono, among many other protesters, was beaten brutally by police brutality for picketing, which is provided for in the Constitution. Photographs and footage of Manono being kicked, punched and bludgeoned with hoe-handle length &ldquo;truncheons&rdquo; were flashed around the world.In all these instances, the police appeared to justify the use of force. This is worrying, especially as we head to the general election period.The 2010 Constitution fundamentally shifted the legal basis for national policing. It sought to change the Kenya Police Force into a Service and had very specific suggested procedures and regulations to this end. It provides for an ambitious set of reforms aimed at addressing a long-term perception of the police in Kenya as abusive, corrupt and effective in all the wrong ways. The reforms are intended to transform the police into a modern, accountable, corruption-free and responsible service provider. One of these processes is the vetting process. Unfortunately, this process has focussed too much on the officers&rsquo; wealth acquired beyond their known means. A number of them have been fired, with the latest batch being 127 Traffic officers accused of receiving bribes and operating matatus. As in the past, not much is heard about abuse of human rights. The wealth and financial inquiries shouldn&rsquo;t be at the expense of other important issues such as competence, discipline and human rights abuse. Reforming the police force/service mustn&rsquo;t end at vetting: The whole concept of policing needs to be re-evaluated and fixed afresh.What we have is a force inherited from the colonialists, who ruled by brute force. Its recruitment, training and job description are intended to serve the master and intimidate and oppress the poor and the weak to maintain an unjust status quo. This is the reason you&rsquo;ll find more officers deployed at an Opposition rally, and none in the marginalised areas, despite their insecurity levels and vulnerability. Many officers are made politicians&rsquo; bodyguards while some areas totally lack policing. This is why a police officer will arrest someone because he or she didn&rsquo;t carry an ID card or is walking at night&mdash; the Kipande system. Despite the fact that they should be working in and with the community, serving the society they come from, they are made to believe they are no longer civilians. They are housed in police lines, more or less barracking them like some army. How, then, can community policing work? These two groups remain suspect of each other.Poor remuneration, lack and inadequate facilities and equipment have also greatly demoralised officers. Some of these drawbacks have been facilitated by corruption. That needs to be fixed. The perception therefore that vetting police officers will do much in reforming the force is misplaced. The solution lies in fixing the whole concept of policing.