THIS year has certainly pulled up many dramatic surprises &ndash; just when we had begun to recover from a Donald Trump presidency in the US, an unknown candidate in The Gambia last week delivered a shock defeat to one of Africa&rsquo;s most eccentric and repressive strongmen. Nothing could have prepared the Gambian people for Adama Barrow&rsquo;s victory at the ballot box, and, especially, for Yahya Jammeh quickly conceding defeat. Who would have imagined it was possible? The Gambia is the smallest in mainland Africa, just 1.8 million people, encircled on three sides by Senegal, eight hours away from Nairobi by air. So far away, and you would think, inconsequential. I bet the only thing many Kenyans know about The Gambia that it is the homeland of Fatou Bensouda of the International Criminal Court: hunter of tyrants, prosecutor of suspects, and irritant of powerful, thuggish people, (mostly in Africa, which is unfair!) Anyway, I digress. The astonishing events in Banjul this week are remarkable not for the mere fact that it was a defeat of the incumbent at the ballot box. More than 20 sitting presidents in Africa have been voted out of office and have gone quietly, most recently Goodluck Jonathan in Nigeria last year. The first African country to vote a sitting president out of a job, believe it or not, was Somalia. In 1967 Abdirashid Ali Shermake defeated incumbent Aden Abdullah Daar, whose popularity had suffered a beating due to the defeat of the Shifta rebels in neighbouring Kenya. If defeats of interim leaders are thrown in, and elections of semi-autonomous places like Puntland, the number rises to more than 25 incumbent defeats, and counting. Not rare So peaceful, electoral transitions of power are not all that rare in Africa. Jammeh&rsquo;s defeat is notable for other reasons - he becomes the first president in Africa of recent times who came to power in a coup or at the head of a victorious guerrilla movement, to accept an election defeat. His &lsquo;comrades&rsquo; &ndash; the likes of Yoweri Museveni in Uganda, Robert Mugabe in Zimbabwe, Omar al-Bashir in Sudan, continue to cling on as long as the good Lord gives them life. What makes Barrow&rsquo;s win more remarkable &ndash; and important for Kenya as we go into an election year &ndash; how it brings nuance into the conventional understanding of elections in Africa. We can find hints of this in a survey conducted by Afrobarometer, a pan-African, non-partisan research network that conducts public attitude surveys on democracy, governance, economic conditions, and related issues across more than 30 countries in Africa. The survey asked respondents: How much do you trust each of the following?&rdquo; and then provided a list of 12 common political institutions found in African countries. The most trustworthy institutions are religious leaders (72%), and in second place is the national army, at 64%. Traditional leaders come in third at 61%, and the president is not far behind, at 57%. The least trusted institutions &ndash; believe it or not &ndash; are opposition parties, at just 36%. This pattern of public opinion is cross-nationally consistent: Institutions rank in the same order in almost every country surveyed. Broadly speaking, the trend is that Africans have far more trust in informal or non-state institutions, such as religious and traditional leaders than in the formal institutions of the state. And second, people trust agencies of the executive branch (presidency, army, and police, even including the tax department) even more than the legislative branch (National Assembly and local government councils), which supposedly is the representative of the people and their interests. The most distrust is reserved for electoral institutions, including the electoral commission and political parties. If you are scratching your head here, you are forgiven. The fact that people would trust unelected officials more than elected ones, and distrust the electoral mechanism itself most of all (but hold the president elected via it in esteem) would seem to confirm that democracy in Africa is a hopeless cause. That is, at least, in its so-called liberal, so-called Western, checks-and-balances model. Some meaning But perhaps there is some meaning we can parse in all this. Two and a half decades after the multiparty &ldquo;revolution&rdquo;, authoritarian and semi-authoritarian strongmen, like Jammeh, have become more adept at political survival, offering some concessions on one hand &ndash; such as stability and economic growth &ndash; and suffocating any political challengers on the other. It is a game of simultaneously co-opting and coercing that most of them have perfected. But this still doesn&rsquo;t mean that elections in Africa today are a pointless farce. Voters in Africa know, intuitively, that &ldquo;outsiders&rdquo; want to be in so that they can benefit from access to power. But there is local consensus on this &ndash; that the mere circulation of power is good. The question, therefore, is how to make a country&rsquo;s political system responsive to the need for a transfer of power. Mostly this incentive comes in the form of economic pain &ndash; Kenya&rsquo;s was in a recession in the year before Mwai Kibaki&rsquo;s win in 2002, for example, with the economy contracting by -0.2%. In the Gambia, the economic squeeze is so bad that despite a population of less than two million people, Gambians are the fourth-largest group of migrant arrivals in Italy. At that point, something has to give. But perhaps the easier way is to ensure, as one Ugandan on Twitter said half-jokingly, that there is a &lsquo;chemical incentive&rsquo;. &ldquo;Trembling with excitement for Africa,&rdquo; he tweeted last Friday as the election results were coming in. &ldquo;Gambia strongman Jammeh about to concede defeat? Can anyone first confirm if he's sober?&rdquo; Christine Mungai is a writer, journalist and executive editor of Africa data visualiser and explainer site Africapedia.com