Jubilee Party members in Taita Taveta county have rejected a list of party delegates proposed for party grassroots elections.The meeting was reduced to a shouting match between Taveta MP Naomi Shaban and party members at a hotel in Voi town on Tuesday.The members said that they did not recognise the list read by an official, Chris Mark, from the party's headquarters in Nairobi.They also said that they did not recognise Mark because he did not have any official letter from the party headquarters."The list you have read comprises people who are not popular in the ground. It&rsquo;s the same people who did not deliver during the last general elections," said Faustine Mghendi.Mghendi added that the returning officer did not have a letter with guidelines on how the elections will be conducted.&ldquo;There is no consensus in this election. Imposing people on us is not the right thing. They have no single document to show how the elections will be done,&rdquo; he said.More on this: Jubilee merger in crisis over delegates listMghendi said delegates have never held a party meeting."These people have failed the party. We need fresh blood in the party," he added.Youth leader Martin Madaraka said that the delegates system of voting is not good.&ldquo;We don't recognise the handpicked delegates because we don't know how they were elected. We want the members to participate in the election of interim party officials because they are the majority. The party belongs to the people," said the youth leader.Read: Why Jubilee may lose majority seats in parliamentShaban and Mark took through the leaders the rules guiding the elections of the 19 interim officials.The Taveta MP said President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP William Ruto gave out the election rules stipulating that only delegates who participated at the National Delegates Conference would be allowed to participate, an issue members present vehemently opposed."The President and his deputy made the final decision on how to pick the party interim officials and we cannot overrule them. If we respect the President we have to respect his decision," the MP told the party members.She said the Registrar of Political Parities will not accept names of officials who did not participate in the NDC."If your name is not there in the list of NDC, you will not participate. We should be practical. We should respect the election guidelines issued by the party leadership," she said.[VIDEO] 'Small problem' of payments will be solved, Ruto tells Jubilee delegatesShaban said the party leadership had declared that the Jubilee will conduct its party elections 90 days after the next general election.Former Voi deputy mayor Zahid Din opposed Shaban's suggestion to use the delegates system and called for an amendment to the party election rules to allow all supporters to participate.He said the party should follow a system that will deliver votes to the President.Also read: Can Jubilee penetrate the Coast region?