The Employment and Labour Relations Court tomorrow is expected to order doctors&rsquo; union officials be jailed or fined for disobeying orders to end their 17-day strike.Yesterday, Justice Hellen Wasilwa found the officials in contempt of court for calling and participating in a strike that the court declared illegal.She had also ordered doctors to resume duty. However, they refuse to return until the state implements the CBA signed in 2013 awarding them a 300 per cent pay rise. Kenya has less than 5,000 doctors, including 3,000 in public hospitals. Virtually all of them are on strike. They have been joined by an unspecifi ed number of physicians and consultants from other facilities.Wasilwa ordered the Kenya Medical Practitioners Pharmacists and Dentists Union offi cials to appear in court tomorrow for a ruling.&ldquo;In safeguarding the dignity of the law, the court should punish off enders who have deliberately disobeyed court orders,&rdquo; she said. Through secretary general Fredrick Oluga, union offi cials said they only became fully aware of Justice Nelson Abuodha&rsquo;s order on December 14, a week after they went on strike. Oluga also said the offi cials were not properly served with the orders.The nationwide strike called by the doctors and nurses began on December 5 after talks with the Health Ministry collapsed.Meanwhile, Kenya National Union of Nurses offi cials got a reprieve after the Labour Court directed the Registrar of Trade Unions to register them as bona fi de offi ce bearers. The union leaders have been fighting a faction that accused them of being in office illegally. The move would have potentially nullified the recent return-to-work formula and the recognition agreement they signed last week for nurses to end their 14-day strike.Wasilwa called for the registration of the officials within 14 days.Jeremiah Maina, Jophinus Musundi and others who challenged legality of Knun offi cials, were told they had no mandate to fi le the petition.Had they been successful, secretary general Seth Panyako and chairman John Biiy would have vacated offi ce. New offi cials could have sought nullifi cation of previous decisions.Panyako told the Star the group opposed to his &lsquo;election&rsquo; does not understand the union Constitution and Labour Relations Act. He said, &ldquo;I gave a 21-day election notice on January 5, no one applied to vie for any position, so we were elected unopposed. How then do they claim we are in office illegally?&rdquo; he said.