For my sake let me hope the Devils and Spurs cancel each other out Arsenal Vs Stoke City Saturday 6pmMy Prediction: The Gunners 3-1 StokeArsenal are on fire! Yes injuries have come as expected at this time of the campaign but manager Arsene Wenger is showing his mastery by keeping everything together at difficult moments. I was just excited to see a player like Lucas Perez who rarely gets a chance to play in the premier league showing us what he is made of in the Champions League. I can&rsquo;t remember the last time Arsenal won a game; it was just a long long time ago! So long ago. Now I&rsquo;m just rubbing it in. We have had a great week; scoring five against West Ham in the league and four in the Champions League. So clearly scoring isn&rsquo;t our problem. Stoke City are also coming into this game after a good two-week run that saw victories over Watford and Burnley. But I just don&rsquo;t think Arsenal need worry about any team just yet. We are ready to face Barcelona right now; heck bring on a combined team of Barca and Real Madrid!Chelsea Vs West Brom Sunday 3pmMy Prediction: The Blues 1-2 West BromNow if there&rsquo;s one team that every football fan in the world fears right now; it&rsquo;s Chelsea. They are unbeaten in their last eight matches and looking really good. Even when they go down first in the game they fight until the end and it&rsquo;s pretty obvious why they are succeeding. They are top of the league and deserve to be there. But wow! West Brom are looking good as well. They are unbeaten in their last four; and they have only lost two of their last ten. They are also seventh in the standings just one point off Man United. And had it been United facing Chelsea this weekend there would be a lot of buzz around the game. Perhaps West Brom can be the team that stops the Blues&rsquo; superb run because it&rsquo;s a challenge no-one is giving much attention to. I&rsquo;m going to go out on a limb here and predict an upset. Come on guys; Chelsea need to go down sometime! Manchester United Vs Tottenham Sunday 5:15pmMy Prediction: Red Devils 3-3 SpursThis is definitely the tie of the weekend and it seems life isn&rsquo;t getting any easier in the league for the Red Devils. Spurs were on a roll until they lost to Chelsea two weeks ago. And that loss was a joy to watch because as Gunners, we couldn&rsquo;t continue to see Spurs going unbeaten. Only one team has had an unbeaten season and the thought of another doing the same; and that other team being our North London rivals, was depressing. But Spurs came back last weekend to score five against Swansea with no reply. OUCH! Everyone has been making fun of Man United going through a period of 1-1 draws but life might get even harder for them this weekend. Their string of draws may be interrupted by a loss. It must be so hard being a Red Devil right now because they actually haven&rsquo;t been playing badly; they have just been unlucky and boy have I enjoyed it! I am going to upgrade United from a 1-1 draw because I think they can actually score more today; but they will also be up against one of the most attacking sides in the league right now. Liverpool Vs West Ham Sunday 7:30pmMy Prediction: The Reds 2-2 The HammersOh Liverpool! You were my favourite opposing team when the season started because of my adoration for Jurgen Klopp but you&rsquo;ve gone and turned that form into a comedy of errors. Okay injuries seem to have been your undoing and you are dearly missing the services of Philippe Coutinho and Adam Lallana; not to mention your permanent patient Daniel Sturridge. Although the strike force wasn&rsquo;t what was lacking last weekend against Bournemouth because you did score three goals. It&rsquo;s the back line that just went to sleep and to be honest Liverpool didn&rsquo;t quite play in the second half. That was very unlike Liverpool who have been one of those sides who play to the final whistle this season. West Ham have taken a beating of late; even though United only managed to beat them in the League Cup. But they will be eager to get their season back on track. They are one position and one point above the relegation zone. But what I don&rsquo;t understand is why Andy Caroll always starts on the bench and yet always comes on and scores. Start him here and see this game end in a draw.