On December 10 each year, the European Union and its Member States join countries in celebrating Human Rights Day. This year the European Union joins the United Nations in calling upon people everywhere to stand up for someone's rights.The European Union's relations with non-EU countries are guided by the principles which have inspired the Union&rsquo;s own creation, development and enlargement: democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, the principles of equality and solidarity, and respect for the principles of the United Nations Charter and international law. It was our own history as a continent which had suffered two World Wars that led the European Union to give such priority to respecting and ensuring Human Rights. All agreements on trade or cooperation with non-EU countries, of which there are now over 120, include a human rights clause stipulating that human rights are central to relations with the EU. In 2016, the European Union has provided financial support to more than 250 human rights defenders around the world who are at risk because of their daily work. These include individuals, groups and organisations who promote and protect universally-recognised human rights and fundamental freedoms, in a peaceful and non-violent manner. Human rights defenders' work covers a wide range of activities: documenting violations; seeking remedies for victims of such violations, and providing legal, psychological, medical and other support to such victims. Such work often necessarily involves criticism of government policies and actions, including within EU countries. However, governments should allow room for independence of mind and free debate since such criticism eventually helps establish a better level of protection of human rights and can be useful advice to governments in drafting relevant policies and legislation. Here in Kenya European Union diplomats joined others in commemorating Human Rights Day through an awards ceremony, which the Netherlands' Ambassador Frans Makken hosted yesterday at his residence to honour and celebrate human rights defenders in this country. The initiative for this ceremony was taken by the Working Group for Human Rights Defenders, a group that consists of European Union and other diplomats in Kenya and human rights defender organisations.Whilst the individual actions of human rights defenders are essential to defending human rights, the primary responsibility for the promotion and protection of human rights lies with states. Reports on human rights violations should be followed up closely. The European Union diplomatic missions to Kenya welcome the Government's interest in international cooperation to strengthen human rights, and would encourage it to take further action. The actions that are being taken by Kenya's government and society to eradicate gender-based violence are most welcome. Freedom of press and personal safety of journalists should continue to be protected, especially in the months ahead of the elections. The European Union diplomatic missions welcome the decision of several Kenyan governments since 1987 to commute death sentences in practice. The European Union would encourage Kenya to fully abolish the death penalty, as well as to follow up on the many recommendations that it supported following the UN's Universal Peer Review of the country in 2015. The European Union also supports the Kenyan government in its fight against terrorism and radicalisation whilst respecting individual rights and the rule of law.Today, and every day of the year, the European Union stands up for human rights worldwide and commits its full support to every individual who does the same. Stefano A. Dejak is the European Union Ambassador to Kenya.The European Union is represented in Kenya by the EU Delegation and the diplomatic missions of Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, and the United Kingdom.