I wish to join all fellow Kenyans in marking 53 years of full and uncontested Independence as a member of the world&rsquo;s free nations. What brought Independence about was not patriots cowered by the might of the British Army and their cohorts, but their conviction that their cause was just and right.The nation has come far in attempting to fulfill the dream of the Founding Fathers that Kenya be a democratic, unified and prosperous home for all.Our Independence did not &ndash; and has not &ndash; sanctioned a country of many turned into one of only a few.It was never envisaged that Kenyans would turn against each other because of language, religion and region of origin.Our Independence never sanctioned attraction to corruption, marginalisation and ethnic exclusion. Unfortunately, the Jubilee government is the symbol of 53 years of undermining the Independence pillars of equity.In this last year of his term, President Uhuru Kenyatta would have done better to recant presiding over an ethnic duopoly rather than invoking the nationalism of the Founding Fathers in vain.I listened to the President&rsquo;s speech with shock: It wasn&rsquo;t just a boring recitation of Jubilee failures as success; the President seems to believe in the deceitful &ldquo;we have set aside&rdquo; philosophy that is used by his government to hide incompetence. Under this philosophy, the President reels off figures in the billions only his imagination can conjure up because poor Kenyans don&rsquo;t see or feel what these billions are doing.And that is why I expected the President to personally disavow corruption. But, true to character, having washed his hands of the war on corruption, he virtually avoided all mention of it. Not strangely, he said the theft at the NYS was a &ldquo;challenge&rdquo; that has instead helped NYS achievements. Go figure.In the litany of Jubilee achievements that he reeled off, it was curious how he evaded mention of the flopped free laptops for pupils and the stuttering SGR. That is a clear indication we will soon be saddled with a white elephant SGR railway &ndash; incomplete, unviable and uneconomical. The FDI he claimed was increasing goes against all economic indicators, the closure of industries and retrenchment. A poor economy and unprecedented public borrowing locking out the private sector, increasing interest rates and high inflation, causing skyrocketing food prices, are what he needs to address rather than seethe at the ICC and civil society.