President Uhuru Kenyatta has ordered the completion of the ongoing rehabilitation of the Sh2.2 billion Yatta Dam by the end of this month. Water PS Fred Segor yesterday visited the project to communicate the presidential directive and told the contractor to comply, failing which there will be dire consequences.&ldquo;The Yatta Canal project in Machakos county commenced in August 2014 and is expected to end on December 31. Currently, the project is providing 1,600 cubic metres of water per day to residents. This is expected to increase to 3,200 cubic metres upon completion,&rdquo; he said.Segor said 85 per cent of the work is completed, but 15 per cent of the 59-kilometre canal is yet to be done, against the expectations of the government. About 1,070 farmers benefit and the number is expected to rise to 5,000. The PS said 4,000 hectares are currently under irrigation and 45,000 hectares will be covered once the project is completed.&ldquo;Farmers are now reaping annual profits of Sh600 million, which is set to rise to Sh2 billion upon completion. Sixteen cattle traps have been created, while there are 66 points for water use by residents,&rdquo; he said.Segor urged contractors to observe timelines when implementing projects. &ldquo;Water is not free in Kenya. People must pay for it. The government has ensured the payment is reasonable. Household consumption of water tariffs is there, through WASREB, for use by farmers,&rdquo; he said.&ldquo;There is an understanding between farmers and Tanathi Water Service Board, the project&rsquo;s agency. They will agree on the amount to be charged in future.&rdquo;The consulting engineers for the project are Norconsult in association with Norken (I) Ltd, while the contractors are BMK Pvt Ltd, STECOL Corporation and Toddy Civil Engineering Limited.In January, the government warned it would terminate the Yatta Dam contract if rehabilitation was not completed by June. Segor inspected the canal and said repairs were behind schedule. &ldquo;As you are aware, this canal was launched in August 2014 and it was to be completed in eight months. You can see it has taken more than a year and this is a big concern to us,&rdquo; he said. Segor met the contractors and set weekly and monthly targets to ensure it was completed in five months. This did not happen.