Arsenal had me on a roll then &lsquo;boom&rsquo; the shells landed. The &lsquo;Baggies&rsquo; had better look outArsenal Vs West Brom Monday 6pmMy Prediction: The Gunners 3-1 The BaggiesFootball life can be really sad sometimes. My Gunners were on such a roll with an amazing unbeaten run and then &ldquo;boom&rdquo; two shameful losses in a row. And both losses &ndash; to Everton and Manchester City &ndash; were tough to take and embarrassing. The Man City game in particular was so painful to watch. The players were acting as if they had hangovers or something. The opening goal play between Alexis Sanchez and Theo Walcott was the only exciting move and moment of the game; and then we all went to sleep; including Manager Arsene Wenger. Infact had Arsenal got a shocking draw in that game; I personally would have appealed to the FA to award the game to City because we wouldn&rsquo;t have deserved it. I just hope Wenger has stopped blaming the referees for every loss and told the players to rise up and be counted. Whether the City goals were off side or not; we played like amateurs and the responsibility of that needs to go to the right place. I just hope they&rsquo;ve woken up because West Brom hasn&rsquo;t been having an altogether bad season. Yes they lost to Man United last week but they still are up there in 8th spot. If the Gunners turn up in this game; then the three points are ours. And after the embarrassment of the last two weeks; I know they&rsquo;ll rise to the occasion. Chelsea Vs Bournemouth Monday 6pmMy Prediction: The Blues 2-2 BournemouthI will be predicting a draw or a loss for Chelsea until the season ends only because 90 % of fans in the world want them to lose. I&rsquo;m hoping the universe will listen. Chelsea are outstanding this season but beatable. I say that because they aren&rsquo;t always winning by big margins but they are getting the job done. Antonio Conte has done an outstanding job and he deserves all the success that&rsquo;s coming his way. He has even managed to contain the unruly Diego Costa and make him appear human again. Bournemouth have mostly been below average although they just make it onto page one. But I&rsquo;m praying that whatever possessed them in their game against Liverpool; which they won; can possess them in this game. Manchester United Vs Sunderland Monday 6pmMy Prediction: The Red Devils 1-1 The Black CatsYou have to go back to the 23rd of October to the game against Chelsea to find Man United&rsquo;s last loss. Ordinarily that should have put them at least in the top four in the standings but the draws of November didn&rsquo;t help them but. But in recent weeks they are like a team possessed. Victories over Tottenham; Crystal Palace and West Brom has seen them close the gap between them and the top four to just three points. Manager Jose Mourinho is beginning to find his first eleven but I just hope that his love for Marouane Fellaini will help other teams snatch points from them. You know I would love to see what Fellaini does in training because he must be so good that each week Mourinho thinks: &ldquo;he&rsquo;ll come good in this game.&rdquo; I&rsquo;ve never hidden the fact that I&rsquo;m a deep admirer of Zlatan Ibrahimovich and I&rsquo;m happy for his success but not happy that United are the beneficiaries. Sunderland on the other hand are in the relegation zone but they did win a game last weekend. Just like I wish for Chelsea&rsquo;s downfall; I wish United drop points in every game. My predictions this week are based on prayers.Liverpool Vs Stoke City Tuesday 8:15pmMy Prediction: The Reds 2-1 StokeWho do Liverpool think they are going above Arsenal and into second in the standings? I don&rsquo;t know what&rsquo;s wrong with me this season but I appear to be admiring opposition players and coaches so much but still wishing they fail. Jurgen Klopp is a man who knows what he is doing. He manages to keep the Reds on top of their game even when missing key players. Of course Divock Origi; who we all knew was a special player; has come through for the Reds even as their key hitmen are out injured. The Reds are playing such clinical football but again I hope they stumble. Stoke City used to be such good rugby players but seem to have changed tactic. Last weekend they shocking let 10 man Leicester back in the game after going ahead by two goals. Jamie Vardy was sent off in the 28th minute and Stoke were leading 2-0 at half time so how that game ended 2-2 is still a mystery. What I read in this is that they stand no chance at Anfield so sadly Liverpool will still be second after Monday&rsquo;s fixtures.