PRESIDENT Uhuru Kenyatta is said to be unhappy with one of his Cabinet Secretaries over delayed construction of roads in his backyard of Central Kenya. On his recent trip to Central Kenya, the President is said to have put Transport CS James Macharia on the spot over delays, especially in Murang'a county. The bone of contention is that there is one specific construction company that seems to win all tenders in the region, but has been delaying completion of roads for years. The President is said to have given the CS instructions to crack the whip on the contractors as the delay could have dire consequences for his reelection chances.****AN ambassador currently serving in one of the Arab countries and who wants to become governor in his home county in Northeastern is a broke man. The diplomat recently watched helplessly as a leading bank auctioned his commercial building in his county after he defaulted on repaying a loan. Coincidentally, the building was purchased by the same businessman who recently bought yet another shopping mall in Eastleigh that belonged to the diplomat, but was also auctioned by a different bank after the envoy defaulted.****THE Eastleigh business district in Nairobi is becoming a major headache for Jubilee as it fights for control of Nairobi ahead of the 2017 elections. The Kikuyu Council of Elders has already started grumbling over President Uhuru Kenyatta's silence about the war between Kikuyu businessmen and their Somali counterparts. Wachira Kiago, the elders' chairman, has already voiced their displeasure with Jubilee for "failing to protect" the Kikuyu business community's interests and allowing the Somalis to slowly kick them to the periphery. The elders are now giving the Jubilee administration an ultimatum: 'Help us in our economic battles with the Somalis before you seek our votes next year'.****THE possibility of Raila Odinga working with businessman Mark Too, former Inspector General of Police David Kimaiyo, West Pokot Senator John Lonyangapuo and Kanu secretary general Nick Salat is becoming unsettling for allies of Deputy President William Ruto. Our moles say that the entry of lawyer Philip Murgor into the 2017 presidential race has made Ruto's allies start restrategising on how to help the DP not lose support in the Rift Valley. "Raila is using those that appear discontented with the DP to try and rebuild his influence in the Rift Valley and deny Jubilee a high majority at the 2017 elections. We must tame these guys at all costs," an ally of Ruto told Corridors.