RUGBY:MASENO ALUMNUS PASSES ON AFTER COLLAPSINGRugby community caught by another tragedy barely inside a weekThe Kenyan rugby community is still reeling from shock after the sudden demise of former Kenya &ldquo;A&rdquo; and Mwamba RFC captain Victor &lsquo;Yoods&rsquo; Wayodi. Wayodi, who played at scrum-half, collapsed during their return match against Top Fry Nakuru RFC that ended in a 10-10 stalemate at the Impala Club during the Kenya Cup Match Day 6. Wayodi first represented the country in 2015 during the Elgon Cup tournament.His death now begs questions about how prepared the KRU are in handling emergencies.Barely a week after Wayodi&rsquo;s tragedy, Nondescript&rsquo;s 19-year old centre Ogeto Gecheo, succumbed to a spinal injury sustained in their 43-10 Kenya Cup defeat to Strathmore Leos. Ogeto also captained the Maseno rugby team in 2014.&ldquo;It is with profound sadness that we announce the untimely passing of our scrum-half and captain Victor Wayodi. The club and family will issue a joint statement in due course,&rdquo; a statement by Mwamba RFC on their official twitter account read.The 24-year old Maseno School alumnus (2008-2011) became interested in rugby when he could not find a cricket pitch at the school, which was his first interest.He became rugby captain in 2011.At Mwamba, Wayodi rose to captain during the Impala Floodlit tournament where he suffered a back injury.This weekend was Wayodi&rsquo;s comeback match after being sidelined for two months. It was also his first match of the Kenya Cup season. He replaced George Mutuku. A club statement before the game by the club read: &ldquo;Mercurial scrumhalf Victor Wayodi will play his first Kenya Cup match of the season against Nakuru RFC tomorrow at Impala Club.&rdquo;The death has reportedly led to the suspension of the Kenya Cup league until next year by the KRU. The Kenya Cup match day 7 was supposed to be played on December 17 and six matches had been set for action. The postponement, announced by Michael Kwambo the KRU media officer, means matches between Kenya Harlequin and Strathmore Leos, Kabras Sugar and Western Bulls, Top Fry Nakuru and Mean Machine, Resolution Impala Saracens and Blak Blad, Menengai Cream Homeboyz and Nondescript and KCB and Mwamba will be played at a date to be communicated. The round 5 match between Impala and Nondescript was earlier postponed in honour of the Nondies centre Gecheo.Leading the pouring condolences was the all time top scorer Collins Injera who said on his official twitter account, &rdquo;It is very painful to have lost you, a very young soul,a team-mate, we even played the game together yesterday. We may not understand certain things sometimes, but it is all in God&rsquo;s plan. Thank Lord life everyday that you wake up to, and remember to make peace with people because you never know when your time is up. May the Lord be with you till we meet again.&rdquo;