Leaders from three Ukambani counties have promised to continue supporting President Uhuru Kenyatta.The President concluded his regional tour in Tawa, Mbooni, on Wednesday, when he commissioned construction of Mbooni Kenya Medical Training College. It will be one of the biggest medical training colleges in the country.Speakers at the event, who included MPs, said they have made up their minds to continue working with the government and would rally residents to support the Jubilee Party.Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana (pictured) described the President&rsquo;s visit as a &ldquo;political tsunami&rdquo; that has shaken all other political outfits. &ldquo;Let me confess. This two-day tsunami has almost destroyed my political group. And I appreciate your work and I respect you. Continue working for us and God will show us the way,&rdquo; the governor said.Yatta MP Francis Mwangangi said the Jubilee government has delivered more benefits to the people in three years than any other administration.Kitui South MP John Munuve said, &ldquo;We are proud to be working with you and we will continue this way. We are also praying for others to see the light and join the right side.&rdquo;Mbooni MP Kisoi Munyao said when the Jubilee administration came into office, Mbooni had only one police car. &ldquo;We now have 12 police vehicles to serve the people in my constituency,&rdquo; he said.The same sentiments were expressed by other speakers, among them MPs Rachael Nyamai (Kitui South), Regina Ndambuki (Kilome) and Joe Mutambu (Kitui Central).&ldquo;We appreciate the fact that your government has been magnanimous and has given jobs to many people from this region,&rdquo; Kibwana said.Uhuru said the Jubilee administration has served and will continue to serve all Kenyans equally. &ldquo;There is no part of Kenya that has not felt what the Jubilee government has been doing,&rdquo; he said.The President urged Kenyans to unite and work together for the country&rsquo;s progress. &ldquo;We have worked very well with leaders from Ukambani. I&rsquo;m happy they have rejected those peddling petty politics. There are others who do not see. You only see them at press conferences issuing insults. How does that help Kenyans?&rdquo; Uhuru asked.He urged the opposition to &ldquo;style-up&rdquo; and learn to engage in politics that benefits Kenyans.