City Hall is seeking the support of private health facilities as the medics' strike continues.The county has written to more than 10 private hospitals, requesting the facilities to attend to emergency cases refereed to them from public hospitals.Health executive Bernard Muia said the county is also hiring part-time doctors and has recalled all medical consultants on leave. &ldquo;We have to take measures because Nairobians cannot suffer as we watch. We have written to the directors of the facilities requesting them to help,&rdquo; Muia said. The facilities are Coptic, Mater, Kayole Provide Intentional, MP Shah, Nairobi, Guru Nanak and Nairobi West. Others are St. Patrick, Avenue Nursing Home, Gertrude, St Mary's hospital, Nairobi Women, Metropolitan, Lang'ata and Meridian Hospital. &ldquo;As we speak, Pumwani [Maternity Hospital] has hired three doctors on locum and the same has happened in other major hospitals like Mama Lucy and Mbagathi,&rdquo; he said. Muia, however, said not all services at the city's level five and four facilities have been affected by the ongoing strike. Speaking at City Hall yesterday, the executive said the county had hired consultants and got a boost from Doctors Without Boarders, who provide outpatient and emergency services. &ldquo;We are seeking help of the private facilities because the numbers [patients] are overwhelming and we don't want to turn away anybody,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;At Puwmani, the number of deliveries have reduced from the normal 80 per day to about 20 per day,&rdquo; he said. Muia hit out at the county health workers taking part in the nationwide strike saying that the move is against a court order. &ldquo;We sincerely do not understand why our health workers are on strike because we sorted out all their issues and we even have a court order stopping them from engaging in any strike,&rdquo; he said.The city health providers resumed work a month ago after they downed their tools for more than a month, demanding six months pay, promotion and remittance of statutory deductions. The nationwide started last week on Monday.The doctors are demanding a 300 per cent pay hike as captured in the Collective Bargaining Agreement signed in 2013.They have vowed not to negotiate outside the 2013 agreement.