When Portuguese explorer Sabina Da Rocha came to Lamu county in April, she opted to pass by Lamu island for three days to enjoy the beauty, nature and history of the Unesco world heritage site. However, because of the culture and warm welcome of the people, Rocha ended up staying for a month.The increasing cases of drug addicts in the island caught her attention during her stay, and she decided to do something about it. Today, she is running a project called &ldquo;Pamoja recovery for drug addiction&rdquo;, which rehabilitates drug addicts to help turn them into useful citizens.TURNING POINTWhile in Lamu, Rocha became friends with residents and got to know them better. It is during her interactions that she came to learn of the menace of drug addiction among the people of Lamu.Rocha later came to learn that the disaster was big and nearly every home has drug addict. Due to culture and the seriousness of the menace, families are forced to live with it.To her, this was turning point in her life and felt there was something she could do to change lives of the &lsquo;good-hearted people&rsquo; suffering due to the drug menace.I met Rocha during this year&rsquo;s 16th Lamu cultural festival in November. She had a stand in one of the exhibition sites showing what they were doing to help recovering addicts.At a glance, one would easily mistake her for a tourist, like the other foreigners who love visiting the Lamu archipelago. However, the signpost at her stand, titled &ldquo;Pamoja recovery for drug addiction&rdquo;, stirred my curiosity.The stand had lots of books and pamphlets with information about drug addiction and drug recovery, which she brought with her to &ldquo;save Lamu drug addicts&rdquo;.Being a foreigner, her mission to come up with the project was because most of those affected were the friends she interacted with daily during her first month in Lamu.&ldquo;I wanted to stay in Lamu for three days, but I ended up staying for one month. I fell in love with Lamu as a traveller. I wanted to get in touch with and know the people,&rdquo; she said.Her interactions familiarised her with the addiction menace, as the youths who showed her Lamu and helped her in her adventures always tried to get money from her.This is when she realised that the money youths got from tourists including her was used to buy drugs to keep them high.For the residents, the lives they live is normal, but to the society, it&rsquo;s a generation being ruined, which will have major repercussions if action is not taken to save them.PARTNER IN DRUG FIGHTDuring one of her visits, Rocha met an old teacher from Lamu, who had worked for 15 years in different rehabilitation centres.A fruitful conversation between the teacher, a man aware and concerned about his community and Rocha, a traveller with more than a touristic experience of Lamu, reinforced the dream to fight drug abuse in Lamu.&ldquo;I asked him if we could come up the idea of rehabilitating the drug addicts and he agreed,&rdquo; she said, adding that in 10 days, they had started forming a centre.First, they began registering &ldquo;Pamoja recovery for drug addiction&rdquo; as a community-based organisation, so as to operate legally as per government procedures.With the support of 13 other members, the organisation was registered with the office of Lamu West social development officer as a CBO.Its vision is &lsquo;A drug-free Lamu&rsquo;, while the mission is &lsquo;to work together for an effective, evidence-based, comprehensive and ethical drug addiction treatment and care in Lamu&rsquo;.To Rocha, the CBO would give drug addicts an opportunity to recover in Lamu. She said the drive to rehabilitate drug addicts at the Coast has not been keen on penetrating Lamu. &ldquo;Lamu has no service for helping recovering addicts. No studies or assets,&rdquo; she said.SKILLS TRAINING CENTRERocha said they have plans to do so many things to facilitate rehabilitation, including giving psycho-social services. These include counselling, motivational interviewing, cognitive-behavioural interventions, group psychotherapy, family therapy, self-help groups and social-labour reintegration.Their aim is to set up a fully-fledged skills training centre for farming, poultry keeping, handicraft, dhow building, fishing among others.Moreover, they plan to organise a range of sports, arts and other communal activities that make sense in addicts&rsquo; recovery process. &ldquo;We want to involve the community, because we are doing community-based services. We want the community to partner with us to take precautions,&rdquo; Rocha said.Her plan is to educate the people on what drug abuse is and its effects on the villages and schools.As a world traveller, Rocha has garnered experience in rehabilitating drug addicts, which she learnt during her globetrotting. &ldquo;Recently, I visited Sri Lanka and saw how they deal with drug abuse rehabilitation. There, they do spiritual rehabilitation and its very powerful and can be used in Lamu to help recovering addicts,&rdquo; she said.MULTI-RELIGIOUS APPROACHRocha said during her short stay in Lamu, she learned that it&rsquo;s an area dominated by Muslims but her project will involve all communities. &ldquo;We shall not be specific to Muslims. It doesn&rsquo;t matter spiritually,&rdquo; she said.Asked about how they operate with the religious and cultural challenges in the area, she said: &ldquo;We are not going to the people. Ours is to create the service and wait for the people to come to us.&rdquo;Some families reportedly stay with drug addicts and suffer in silence the effects of the menace. Rocha wants to create awareness that they deal with drug addiction rehabilitation.&ldquo;Every family in Lamu has a victim of drug abuse. People are most willing to get the services. We just need to create the service,&rdquo; she said.The project cofounder said they began from scratch on August 31 after the CBO was fully registered. They now have 30 members and get support from the police and other government authorities in their work.CHALLENGESThe CBO has encountered several problems in the course of its work. &ldquo;We have experienced psychologists but we don&rsquo;t have a place. We need money to start; we are searching for it. Personally, I am most willing to give Lamu an opportunity,&rdquo; Rocha said.The cofounder said some people have been addicted for more than 25 years and want to get back to normal life. She said drugs are easily accessible in Lamu and it requires concerted efforts to save the victims.Already, they have written a proposal seeking financial aid from well-wishers, the government and NGOs.To her, drug addiction is a disease and, as any other disease, needs proper treatment. However, Lamu still lacks services to treat the disease.One of their pamphlets read: &ldquo;Due to the staggering of dependency rates, the related negative consequences lived daily by the whole community and the responsibility of our society in providing a recovery opportunity, we consider that drug addiction treatment in Lamu become urgent.&rdquo;Rocha said they welcome anybody ready to help in funding, sponsoring or being their partner or a volunteer. She said drug addiction is not an individual problem.&ldquo;It is an issue that affects families and communities. Drug addiction treatment is our responsibility and we can just do it pamoja (together). Pamoja needs your help! Please contact us,&rdquo; she concluded.CONTACTS:&ldquo;Pamoja recovery for drug addiction&rdquo; can be reached on phone through 0727323834/ 0791899959. Their Kenya Commercial Bank account number is 1200267850.