I had been staring at a blank page for an hour. I was at my wits&rsquo; end on what my character, in a fictional story, was going to do next. It was not the first time this had happened, nor was it the first time I was thinking I had made a terrible mistake choosing to write stories for a living. But then I had an epiphany: writing is like life.How so, you may ask.To begin with, in order to write, you need to read widely and indiscriminately works of great quality. As is the case in life, you learn a lot from both good and bad examples. Writing takes planning. You plot and think deeply about the characters and their motives but just like life, things don&rsquo;t always go as planned. Be that as it may, you don&rsquo;t give up, you keep plugging away, moving on ahead, and walking forward, for if you stop midway, you never find out. To write, you need to write. As obvious as this may seem, you&rsquo;d be surprised the number of would-be writers who have great writing ideas but never put down anything on paper. Likewise, many people have grand ideas for their lives but do nothing about it. Writing means putting in the work, but unlike life, where you&rsquo;d at least have something to show for all your hard work, with writing, one can only hope.Writing is rewriting. You write, and after you&rsquo;ve finished, you go back to the beginning to examine your work more closely. You make corrections, edit, and rewrite. And after you&rsquo;re finished, you do it all over again, several times. From this tedium emerges a slightly better version of the first draft. The equivalent of this in life is introspection, without the frustration of rewrites.The next step in writing is submitting your work to a publisher, where it will be judged and more often than not will be rejected, or published and then hardly anybody notices it. Life&rsquo;s like that sometimes, especially for people who put themselves out there. That said, don&rsquo;t be deterred. Always keep in mind that you&rsquo;re doing this, be it writing or living your life, for yourself and not for other people. As for my staring at a blank page for an hour, my mistake was that I wanted that next scene to be perfect first time round. Thing is, you can&rsquo;t be perfect first time around at anything. You have to allow yourself to make mistakes; otherwise you end up stuck, staring at a blinking cursor on a screen.