Strathmore University Gladiators are the 2016 Kenya Hockey Union Premier League champions.The students garnered their third title by beating 2015 winners Butali Sugar Warriors 4-1 on post-match shoot-outs, having played to a 1-1 draw in regulation time in the playoffs final.The match played, at City Park Stadium, Nairobi, was rained off on Saturday afternoon in the 72nd minute when both sides had scored a goal each. The game resumed yesterday to finish the 18 minutes with none of the sides netting a goal. On both days, the game was characterized by balanced possession and fierce defensive play. Former Friends School Kamusinga and Strathmore University hockey teams&rsquo; alumni Frank Wanangwe gave the Warriors the lead in the seventhminute. After an unyielding first half for the students, Constant Wakhura equalised in the 55th minute.Strathmore goalkeeper John Brown denied Butali&rsquo;s Zack Aura, Wanangwe and Seth Oburu goals in the postmatch shoot-out. On the other hand,Gladiators&rsquo; captain Francis Kariuki, Dan Onyango, Derrick Kuloba and Wakhura netted one each past Richard Rwitha. Jubilant coach Meshack Senge attributed the victory to hard work and utter desire.&ldquo;It was more of desire. We really wanted it more than they did. There has been a lot of hard work in the background, dedication from theplayers and the urge to be champions again. Most of the players are almost finishing their college cycle and this was the best way to end their college career,&rdquo; said Senge, who has invested heavily on team structures.After the games that was marked with numerous unconverted penalty corners, Senge noted: &ldquo;Penalty corners have been our strength but in thelast 18 minutes of the game, nerves came into play but that did not put us down. The ball was a bit bouncy for us today (Sunday), otherwise we would not have to proceed to shoot outs if we had converted the penalty corners. We had gathered momentum on Saturday before the rains gave us some sucker punches.&rdquo; On the losing efforts, Butali Sugar&rsquo;s tactician Cliff Okello also singled the inability to convert penalty corners by his charges as their main challenge.&ldquo;We failed to convert the numerous chances that came our way and that cost us the title. If we took our chances, this game would have been home yesterday (Saturday),&rdquo; said Okello, whose side squandered four penalty corners yesterday. &ldquo;Champions always ride on happiness and pain. We have rode on happiness for the last two years; this is our down but I promise we will rise again.&rdquo;