Private schools will no longer be allowed to have satellite examination centres for brighter and weaker students.Education CS Fred Matiang i yesterday said, It is wrong to categorise some candidates as foolish and others as intelligent. It is psychological torture. He spoke when he released the KCPE results.Matiang i said the government is aware some private schools operate multiple examination centres to record favourable rankings. This is unethical, he said. Matiang i said, It is a ridiculous examination malpractice because the proprietors of these schools are clearly using innocent pupils in an unscrupulous marketing exercise of their businesses. Over the years, private schools register weaker pupils at sister satellite examination centres so as not to bring down the mean scores of their main schools. We have discovered that the majority of the schools that offload weaker pupils usually have a small candidature of between 20 and 30 of their best candidates. This time round these schools have nowhere to hide, Matiang i said. We will name and shame them. I want to announce that the Education ministry has resolved to stamp out this unethical practice once and for all. This means KNEC will not register these schools as centres for national examinations next year.Matiang i clarified that private candidates will be registered and sit their exams from an open public institution, but not exam centres normally located behind shops to perpetuate the many cases of impersonation .Knec chairman George Magoha said he does not support teachers who lie. It is nonsense to accept to select 20 out of 200 candidates and celebrate them as top performers. Matiang i revised the top score in the 2016 KCPE examination to 439. He had earlier announced that the best performing students scored 436 marks, 13 points lower that the highest score the previous year.Victor Odhiambo from Kakamega county attained 437 marks - 97 points in English, 99 kiswahili, 87 mathematics, 71 in science and 83 in social studies.