Striking doctors and nurses have vowed not to resume work until the government implements a deal signed in 2013, awarding them a 300 per cent pay increase.However, Employment and Labour Relations Court judge Hellen Wasilwa yesterday declared the strike illegal &ldquo;as there is an existing court order suspending it&rdquo;.She said she will not hear any of the parties in the case until the doctors and nurses resume work. But Kenya National Union of Nurses secretary general Seth Panyako said they have not disobeyed any court order.Speaking to the press at the Milimani law courts, Panyako said the order the court is referring to was issued based on a strike notice that they, as a union, did not issue.&ldquo;The national strike we issued is dated November 12. There is no national strike that is ongoing that has a notice dated October 10. This order was granted based on misrepresentation by the people who filed it and there is no valid order from the court stopping the ongoing strike,&rdquo; he said.In the case, Justice Nelson Abuodha issued orders stopping the nurses from withdrawing their labour, following a successful application by the Council of Governors. The judge directed Knun, its members, employees or proxies not to call, convene, proceed with or engage in any protest, pending the conclusion of the case. The case will be mentioned on Monday next week for further directions. The Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists&rsquo; Union also maintained the strike will go on. Secretary general Ouma Oluga said the strike action was very well considered and all they want is implementation of the CBA.&ldquo;Nothing will stop us from having that CBA implemented. We are on strike and we are telling our members the strike continues. The solution lies with the government,&rdquo; he said.The nationwide strike called by the doctors and nurses began on December 5 after talks with the Health ministry collapsed. Doctors want a 300 per cent salary increment as the CBA signed in 2013 stipulates. This would give the lowest paid doctor Sh342,000 and the highest paid Sh940,000. The highest paid doctor currently earns Sh500,000 and the lowest paid Sh40,000. The health crisis has deepened. More than 25 people have died because of lack of medical care, as operations in many hospitals remain disrupted, with no end to the strike in sight.