Lifestyle clothing retailer Deacons yesterday said sales are flat this festive season, attributing minimal business to lower consumer purchasing power. The firm said delays by the government to settle tens of billions of shillings in arrears to suppliers and interest caps enforced in September have hurt circulation of cash in the economy."The company is trading fairly softly. We have not seen the Christmas rush we usually see, but we are hoping it will come towards the end of next week," Deacons Kenya chief executive Wahome Muchiri said in an interview in Nairobi. "I think it's got to do with the interest rate change, the government budget deficit, and the government's inability to meet its obligations to suppliers which has affected the cycle of cash. Cash is not circulating and that directly affects our customers." Muchiri said the retail sector has taken a &ldquo;big beating&rdquo; this year due to increased changes in the market, which have undermined consumers' spending, with businesses bearing the brunt. Deacons cited reduced buying power, increased competition leading to "cannibalisation" of customers, and heavy road traffic as major challenges this year. The firm on August 2 listed 123,558,228 of its shares at the Nairobi Securities Exchange's Alternative Investment Market Segment for Sh15 each, valuing the retailer at Sh1.85 billion. The share price has since plummeted to hover around Sh5.70. However, Muchiri said sales in Uganda have been stable than in Kenya, although they were generally soft. The clothing retailer yesterday signed a partnership agreement with British retail giant Tesco's fashion brand F&amp;F Clothing, an investment aimed at increasing the firm's market share. "We are investing to grow our business for the future, and we are hoping that F&amp;F will add value to our brand portfolio. Through the partnership we have targeted the middle class and we hope this will penetrate down to the lower middle class," Muchiri said. Deacons operates clothing stores such as 4U2, Mr Price, Angelo and Truworths in four markets including Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and Mauritius.