About two months ago, an influential media pundit, Dr David Ndii, wrote to declare that &ldquo;the Kenya Project&rdquo; had failed, and that the time had come to get out of this &ldquo;abusive marriage&rdquo; and initiate a discussion on &ldquo;divorce&rdquo;.By this he meant &mdash; surprisingly enough &mdash; that the 42 tribes which make up the indigenous Kenyan population had failed to show that they could live together in harmony within the official borders of this nation. And so if any of the tribes wanted to secede, they should be free to do so.At the time when I first read this article, I recognised it for what it plainly was &mdash; a joke. But it did remind me of something I had read many years ago.It&rsquo;s from one of the earlier works of VS Naipaul, long before he won his Nobel Prize in literature. The book is A Bend in the River, and the paragraphs I had in mind described a party the narrator attended at some training institution (in a mythical country loosely based on DR Congo) with many expatriate tutors. Some songs by the 1960s &lsquo;protest music&rsquo; icon Joan Baez were playing and this led the narrator to remark, &ldquo;You couldn&rsquo;t listen to sweet songs about injustice unless you expected justice and received it much of the time. You couldn&rsquo;t sing songs about the end of the world unless &mdash; like the other people in that room, so beautiful with such simple things: African mats on the floor and African hangings on the wall and spears and masks &mdash; you felt that the world was going on and you were safe in it.&rdquo;And so it was with Dr Ndii and his friends who rose to support his absurd thesis: they know very well that Kenya is not going to break up.Indeed, I noticed that most of those who have occasionally written to express their despair over the future of this nation have usually been Kenyans with PhDs obtained in some of the finest universities in Europe. Not only that but they are also the kind of people often invited to attend seminars and conferences in which &ldquo;the future of Africa&rdquo; is debated at four-star European or North American hotels.In the recent past, such meetings have been dominated by the &lsquo;Africa rising&rsquo; narrative. This is the assertion that the time has now come for Africa to experience the kind of economic growth that lifted hundreds of millions of Asians out of agrarian destitution in the past decade or so, particularly in India and China.What this &lsquo;Africa rising&rsquo; narrative overlooked was that what was really rising was global commodity prices fueled by China&rsquo;s seemingly limitless appetite for the oil, metals and other commodities found aplenty in various African nations.As another Nobel Prize-winner (this time, the economist Paul Krugman) noted back in 2010: &ldquo;Copper and cotton have hit record highs. Wheat and corn prices are way up. Over all, world commodity prices have risen by a quarter in the past six months. So what&rsquo;s the meaning of this surge?&rdquo; and then went on to explain: &ldquo;The primary driving force behind rising commodity prices...is demand from China and other emerging economies. As more and more people in formerly poor nations are entering the global middle class, they&rsquo;re beginning to drive cars and eat meat, placing growing pressure on world oil and food supplies.&rdquo;The article from which I extracted this quote was written when oil cost $90 (Sh9,091 )a barrel; we have since seen it drop to $40 (Sh4,040 ), and it is only now hovering around the $50 (Sh5,050 )mark.Developing countries like Nigeria and Angola that relied on their petroleum revenues to finance government expenditure, have since experienced Africa sinking&rsquo; following the collapse of global crude oil prices.The Africa rising narrative was a false interpretation of global economic trends. There was not a trace of empiricism to support these optimistic claims.But so too is all this talk of &ldquo;the end of the Kenya Project&rdquo;. It is more than just a false narrative. It is plain nonsense.We may or may not have election-related violence in 2017. But taking the long-term view, I am sure we will do just fine, and remain as one nation.