Many sore losers like to use the phrase &ldquo;the best team lost&rdquo; over and over again and while in a simple mind that could be true; the only way to win a football game is to score goals. That is the ultimate football rule. He who scores more goals than his opponent; wins the game. It doesn&rsquo;t say that he who dominates ball possession; or he who wins more tackles; it says he who scores more goals than his opponent wins the game.Of course the fact is that in order to win a game; your team needs to have the ball; and needs to be completing passes and winning more tackles; but there&rsquo;s a reason why the strikers get all the glory yet a football team is made up of eleven players. If all that great football display on the pitch doesn&rsquo;t result in a goal; then it&rsquo;s all in vain; as there is no other way to win games; than by &ldquo;scoring more goals than your opponent.&rdquo; If football was a game about displaying your skill; then Germany certainly entertained during their loss to France in the Euro semi final. They held onto the ball; they were more skilled and frankly; they kept me awake even though I was supporting the French to win. But it&rsquo;s about being effective. Too many times as a Gunner I&rsquo;ve watched games that Arsenal dominated but were unable to finish off with goals. And that&rsquo;s one of the reasons why we&rsquo;ve gone 12 years without a league title and have never won the Champions League. It&rsquo;s rare that I&rsquo;ll support a team that plays ugly but effective football; because support to me means the style of play must entertain me; but once in a while I crave that feeling of winning; and like in France&rsquo;s caselast night; ugly won. At lease I know that on a good day the French can entertain me with their game which is why I support them in the first place. I also expect that onSundayI&rsquo;ll get both; an entertaining game from my team; and a victory of course. So whether the &ldquo;best team won or lost the semi final&rdquo; the fact is that France will line up to play Portugal onSunday. Talk to me on @CarolRadull on twitter orwww.facebook.com/CarolRadull