JOSEPH Kaberia Arimba&rsquo;s interest in the Speaker of the Meru County Assembly position developed in 2012. He had attended a meeting in which all those present declared their interest in various elective seats.But nobody declared an interest in the Speaker position.Four years into the job, Arimba, who confesses to a craving for cereal foods such as rice and beans, says the tasks are challenging. The job has denied him considerable time to be with his family as he is always holed up in meetings and preparing matters related to the running of the assembly.&ldquo;There were no structures when I took over. After being sworn in, I was simply told to take over and proceed with the business of the House,&rdquo; the Speaker reminisces.He managed to cope because &ldquo;I had been following parliamentary proceedings even before&rdquo;.He has amassed a lot of knowledge of legislative matters, interactive issues and public affairs, besides putting systems and structures in place for running the county assembly, among them the House standing orders.The assembly has also established infrastructure, chambers, offices and enacted a great deal of legislation ( 20 bills, 20 laws and others are in the pipeline). It has effected many policies of the county government and performed its oversight and representative roles well.The Speaker says political divisions such as those evident in the county assembly among members are expected to become more pronounced because everyone is fighting for their space.&ldquo;The divisions between Governor Peter Munya and Senator Kiraitu Murungi have not affected the business of the House so much, despite the affiliations of the MCAs. They are expected and I have decided the dust should settle so that we can manage House business. All I need is to be fair and impartial in line with my oath of office,&rdquo; he says.His ambition is to serve the assembly for a maximum of 10 years. He will be seeking reelection after next year&rsquo;s general election to complete what he started and the many new laws to be passed for the good of the county.&ldquo;After the speakership, I have no intentions of an elective seat,&rdquo; he says. &ldquo;If the national government feels I can be of use in any capacity, I am ready to offer my services.&rdquo;Arimba wants all those seeking elective seats to sell their policies to the people with etiquette and decorum so that they don&rsquo;t divide the people of Meru along sub-ethnic lines of Igembe, Imenti and Tigania.&rdquo;****1970:Born in Kathelwa, Igembe Central, Meru county1978: Joins Class One at Kathelwa Primary School, where he did his KCPE in 19851986: Chuka High School, KCSE class of 19891990: University of Nairobi, graduated with a Bachelor of Laws Degree in 19941995: Kenya School of law, Postgraduate Diploma in Law1997: Admitted as an Advocate of the High Court2013 to date: Speaker of the Meru County Assembly***** &ldquo;It beats logic to have nominated members at the same number as the elected members who did not have to be more than 15 ladies. Is it business as usual with the IEBC, where people can bribe their way to political power? It&rsquo;s unlawful, the public will be burdened. They will just receive money and pile it up to come and compete with some of our elected members of the assembly at the next general election.&rdquo;&ldquo;Out of the 45 elected MCAs in the Meru County Assembly, we only have five ladies and they are chairpersons in different assembly committees. Women are active in the field of legislation, but they rarely come out for public participation. Even if it&rsquo;s a Water Bill or new Land Act that requires the consent of a wife in sale of property, or FGM and Matrimonial Bills, those who come out are men legislators.&rdquo;&ldquo;Every day our officers are travelling to Nairobi to follow up on the funds and all they come back with is a shifting of blame games between the Transition Authority and the Treasury. Our activities may grind to a halt if no funds are released. What we may end up with is the public losing confidence with us, because they expect us to perform. They have been made to believe we have money, yet we don&rsquo;t have any. In the first place, the money that was to be released two months ago has not been released.&rdquo;