Safaricom will get its 4G spectrum licence next month, the Communication Authority of Kenya has said. The permit is a boost to the telco which is rolling out an expansion programme in seven major towns today. The CA director general Francis Wangusi yesterday said the authority is finalising the process before handing over the licence, which has been approved by the technical committee. By end of November we will have given them the licence. They have, however, already rolled out in major towns, Wangusi told the Star on the phone.The three firms in the programme Safaricom, Airtel and Telcom Kenya will pay $25 million (Sh2.53 billion) for the authorisation.Safaricom and Airtel were last year issued with 4G spectrum on a pilot basis, but only Safaricom has rolled out the service. The rest are on the way to roll out. They have done the planning, acquired equipment, but it is yet to arrive in the country. We have agreed by March next year they should have rolled out, Wangusi said.The launch of the expansion programme will increase Safaricom's 4G base stations from 500 to more than 1,000 before the end of the year. The project will increase the firm's 3G and 4G foot print to more than 4,600 sites, cementing its position as the leading Internet provider.Safaricom s consumer business director Sylvia Mulinge yesterday said the firm has experienced a 77 per cent increase in mobile data usage per customer, with overall smartphone ownership more than doubling . Our continued initiative to enhance the network experience will ensure that we continue to progress our vision to democratise data for all Kenyans, Mulinge said.The CA latest data shows mobile subscriptions grew by 3.7 per cent to 39.7 million in June 2016, up from 38.3 million subscriptions recorded in a similar period last year.There were 1.4 million new mobile subscriptions compared to 660, 867 last year.Data subscriptions rose by 8.2 per cent to reach 26.8 million up from 24.8 million subscriptions recorded last quarter, a 35 per cent growth.The three mobile operators will be required to share at least 30 per cent of the 4G frequency spectrum with smaller telcos, Wangusi said. They will each ride on a two by 10 MHz platform which allows transmitting and receiving.Safaricom has 4G coverage in Nairobi, Mombasa, Kisumu, Nakuru, Eldoret, Meru and Kisii, with 30 counties having access its Internet connection.