Bazil Ngode recently mesmerised Nairobi with arguably a new phenomenon in the art industry. The visual artist showcased Refutations, a five-hour video mapping performance, projected on Kencom House.The colourful display marked one of the fully impressive performances showcased at the Digital Art Festival, which began on October 4. The festival was organised by Mbithi Masya and his co-curator Sandra Chege of Youth Knows No Limits (YKNL), in partnership with Goethe-Institute. The artistes picked for the project chose different spaces to exhibit their art with the aim of creating a social media conversation.Ngode said the interactive instalment will change the perspective of the common citizen on how they view art. His content was broken down to three themes: social responsibility, safety and security and social awareness and identity. It expressed a futuristic aspect that combined distortions, things people experience on a daily basis, wildlife, and geometrical motion art, among others. The colour scheme used here is part of what I would expect Africans to relate with. Colours evoke a certain emotion, Ngode said.To bring the performance to life, he set up a projector on the Hilton Hotel rooftop to map content onto the Kencom House, turning it into an interactive display. A lot of work was put into this. I appreciate that I have the opportunity to display my work to a larger audience, Ngode said.The jaw-dropping installation was specifically customised for the Kencom Bus Stage, with images detailing matatu route numbers to various parts of Nairobi.There was an expression of awe on the faces of those on the streets who stopped and took time to observe the huge display, which enhanced the building's architecture.Ngode is one of Kenya's biggest visual artists and has worked as a visual director with key events like Blankets and Wine and SportPesa Festival. For events, people don't pay attention to what is on the screen. They pay attention to the artiste. However, we want to turn that perception around. The screen work should be an extension of the artiste's performance, he said.