My professor once told me the first time electoral rigging happened in Kenya, it was organised through the bottom-up approach, meaning it was the voters, and not the candidates, who planned and executed it.This was in Bungoma in 1931, when the colonialists allowed the natives to elect their chief. The returning officer was a white man, and the natives took advantage of his inability to tell them apart. They voted multiple times; Exchanging pieces of clothing and lining up repeatedly to cast their ballots. Since then, election fraud in Kenya has evolved. It has grown increasingly sophisticated compared to the Bungoma tactic 85 years ago. And unlike the 1931 advent, it is almost always from the top down: It has moved from gerrymandering, which was predominant in the pre-multiparty era amongst parliamentary candidates, to ballot stuffing, voter register tampering, physically derailing or influencing the opponent s voters, and, in more recent times, technology-based rigging.Electoral fraud is without a doubt one of the perennial dominant topics in the Kenyan voting cycle. One cannot make a comprehensive analysis of Kenyan politics, either predicatively or retrospectively, without discussing rigging attempts or allegations. And this applies to all elections, down to university and sacco level elections. In the 2007 general election, the contestation that followed the outcome led to the post-election violence and in 2013, it ended up at the Supreme Court.The rigging phenomenon is so all-pervading that it may well have taken root in the subconscious. In 2013, a State House official suffered a Freudian slip in a national TV interview. As he was trying to assure a voter who had skyped in from the diaspora that the election will be inclusive, he inadvertently promised him that the government will ensure effective rigging . He obviously meant to say something else, but as the gods of embarrassment would have it, the poor guy was left with foot in mouth, and the awkwardness that ensued was painful to watch.Lately, we have watched American politics degenerate slowly but surely, becoming what Americans themselves would condescendingly call a banana republic election season . The icing on the cake being Republican Party nominee Donald Trump s recent prediction of a rigged election on November 8. Trump s rigging allegations are not entirely far-fetched. Electoral fraud is not a behaviour exclusive to African republics , America has had a rich history of alleged poll scams. In 1960, Richard Nixon claimed to have been a victim of ballot stuffing in the presidential election, which he very closely lost to JF Kennedy, who won by a mere 120,000 votes.But Nixon accepted and moved on, as we say in Kenya. Years later, in 1974, he himself later became the accused, following a complex attempt to cover up election related dirty tricks . More recently, in 2000, Florida was a point of contention when Al Gore claimed he was rigged out in the presidential election. Gore, like Nixon in 1960, accepted and moved on, but only after taking the matter to court.There is, however, a stark difference in this electoral year. Never has an American presidential candidate expressed suspicion prior to the election, or worse, and even insinuated that he may not accept the results. This has so far only been an African phenomenon. In Kenya, it is a tactic opposition leader Raila Odinga has used repeatedly in the past, especially when he senses defeat. And, like Raila, Trump has the potential to stir up popular passions, as has been seen in his campaign rallies so far.So, after over two centuries of peaceful power transitions by the world s democratic leader , is it time to put out travel advisories ahead of this already contested election, and perhaps prepare to send African peacekeepers to America?