Wiper Party Leader Kalonzo Musyoka has asked opposition supporters not to be swayed by money to join the Jubilee Party. Kalonzo accused Jubilee of using proceeds from corruption to buy support but warned that it will backfire."We hear that now residents of Kisii are in Jubilee. Is that true?" Kalonzo posed a question as he began his two day tour of Nyamira and Kisii counties .He added; "They are coming here weekly with dirty money to bribe you; but do not accept to be swayed."The former Vice President said Cord was united and will field one candidate who will send the government of President Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto home in the 2017 polls. He remained hopeful that his co principals Raila Odinga and Moses Wetangula will back his candidature."I am urging you people to pray for my colleagues, Raila and Wetangula to declare that I am the best person to send Uhuru and Ruto home." Kalonzo said. The Wiper leader addressed rallies at Kemera and Nyaikuro in Kitutu Masaba, Makairo in West Mugirango before meeting wiper grassroots leaders at Viongozi centre in Borabu constituency. Later on he addressed a rally at Kebiringo market. He was accompanied by Borabu MP Ben Momanyi, Makueni women Representative Rose Museo, nominated senator Judy Sijenyi, EALA MP Peter Mathuki, Machakos deputy governor Benard Kiala and several Wiper aspirants from Nyamira county.While at Makairo, Kalonzo said the Jubilee coalition should not take credit for the appointment of David Maraga as chief justice as the appointment was done on merit and not political consideration. "Let them not come here and say we have given you David Maraga as Chief Justice. Maraga who was my classmate and comes from this constituency was competent and passed the interview. Jubilee can not claim credit for that." Kalonzo said. Borabu MP Ben Momanyi warned Deputy President William Ruto against his constant attack on the opposition for not picking it's presidential candidate saying that the time for that will come and the DP should keep off."There is someone who is been going to different counties dismissing Cord. Yesterday he was in Western and attacked our coalition but we want to remind William Ruto that Cord has its party structures. He has no party after several parties dissolved to form the Jubilee Party," Momanyi said.