EVEN as the country tries to understand how Sh5 billion was lost at the Ministry of Health Headquarters, one of the people mentioned in the scam is a known influential supplier at Afya House. All Afya House staff are always happy when he walks into the Community Hill-based building because he is known to dish out money to all and sundry to keep an eye on competing bidders. No bidder can succeed in a tender at Afya House without the man s blessings. Some of the staff were overheard last week saying Health CS Cleopa Mailu should now review CCTV footage to see the said businessman. ****JUST where is this aide attached to one of the Cord principals getting instructions from? Since the man, who claims to be a gym instructor, though it later turned out that he is masseur was hired by the Big Man, envoys, governors, MPs, businesspeople, friends and other key figures have been complaining that access to the leader has been cut off. Whenever they try to call the principal, the security aide does not hesitate to disconnect their calls. As if this were not enough, the man brags to those who care to listen that he is untouchable. Interestingly, influential Jubilee strategists, among them politicians and businesspeople, were recently heard saying that the man is doing a good job as per their plan. Corridors has it that the plan is to isolate the principal from the people. ****JUBILEE point men who led the party s campaigns in ward by-elections in Kisii, Turkana, Kajiado and Tana River counties may be in for a rude shock. The individuals, the majority of them Cord rebel MPs and other officials facing expulsion from their parties, have been told to account for their actions. Despite spending colossal sums of money to sway the voters, the President s party only managed one seat of the four up for grabs. A source tells Corridors that the individuals may have pocketed the money thinking that their candidates would carry the day. Even not so good for the rebel Cord MPs, Corridors has it that should their party successfully manage to push them out and therefore occasion a by- election, Jubilee will not stand with them. ****AND still on Jubilee, Corridors has been informed that some of the politicians away in China to learn how to manage a party seem to have expanded their mission to testing Chinese twilight goodies. A small bird whispers to Corridors that two excited politicians hardly participated in learning a thing or two about the Communist Party of China, instead they roamed the streets to test their bed prowess.