Suba MP John Mbadi and Lands executive Consolata Yambo have denied the Homa Bay government sunk boreholes in their compounds. They admitted, however, that a borehole was sunk near Mbadi&rsquo;s home.In a letter from resident Gerald Dibogo petitioning the EACC to investigate Mbadi and Yambo, Suba South MCA Tom Omuto is also mentioned as a beneficiary.However, Mbadi and Yambo said they did not deliberately have the borehole sunk near Mbadi&rsquo;s home. They told the Star a geological survey was conducted and the county government settled on sinking the borehole there.brother offered land&ldquo;The Homa Bay government did not commit a crime in sinking the borehole in that place if that area proved to have a high water table,&rdquo; Yambo said. She is the former Water executive.Yambo said Suba residents often face acute water shortages. She said some people are being used to fight the county government&rsquo;s initiatives to provide water to residents. Yambo denied that one of the boreholes was dug in her homestead. &ldquo;I&rsquo;ve never sunk a borehole at my home. The water I use is collected from my roof and I&rsquo;ve used it since 1998. Let anybody doubting me come and confirm for themselves,&rdquo; she said. Mbadi said the borehole was dug on his brother&rsquo;s land. He said they are being criticised for offering land for the construction of the God Liech Community Water Project. Mudslinging&ldquo;These are busybodies who lack something to pursue in their lives. I don&rsquo;t see anything warranting investigations if my family agrees to offer land freely for construction of a project that helps our people,&rdquo; Mbadi said. He said his rivals want to use the project to dim his rising political star. Mbadi said he has spent CDF money prudently to benefit residents, forcing his rivals to resort to political mudslinging. &ldquo;They have nothing on me, since they haven&rsquo;t seen me take bribes or associate myself with the Jubilee government to tag me a mole, hence tainting my name is the only thing they can do,&rdquo; he said. The legislator said his opponents are hiding behind &ldquo;an amorphous person called Gerald Dibogo&rdquo;. He asked why anyone would file a petition over the borehole project. &ldquo;We&rsquo;ve realised there&rsquo;s nobody with such a name in Magunga and even if there is, what concern does he have with the water, which is 11km from where he resides?&rdquo; Mbadi said. Supports awitiThe ODM national chairman has been accused of taking sides in Homa Bay politics by publicly rooting for Governor Cyprian Awiti&rsquo;s reelection.&ldquo;I will support Awiti&rsquo;s reelection as an individual because of his development record since his election. But I&rsquo;m ready to support whoever ODM will nominate for the Homa Bay governor race in 2017,&rdquo; Mbadi said. On Sunday, governor aspirant Sammy Wakiaga told Mbadi to stop using his position to influence the governor race. Omuto was unavailable for comment as his phone was switched off. &ldquo;It is quite unfortunate that our leaders do not appreciate that we are under a new constitutional dispensation, where all public officers are under a duty not only to uphold the provisions of the Constitution but also conduct themselves in an ethical manner while serving the electorate,&rdquo; Dibogo says in the letter to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission.