A person was killed and three injured in three simultaneous banditry attacks in Kerio Valley on Monday.A fierce gun battle erupted in Murkutwo, Tot and Kaben areas in Marakwet East as security officials engaged in a war of words over who was to blame for the escalating violence.Pokot bandits allegedly attacked the areas at about 8am before a shoot-out ensued as youths retaliated, culminating in a fight that lasted more than five hours.Elgeyo Marakwet county commissioner Fredrick Ndambuki accused Marakwet professionals and local leaders of aiding banditry in the area. We have information that professionals and leaders are facilitating the acquisition of arms. The youth are now using the illegal firearms to kill each other, he said.Ndambuki said it was wrong for the leaders to claim Pokot bandits raided a village where they had attended a funeral on Friday. There was no attack near the venue of the funeral. The leaders were scared by Marakwet herders who were taking their animals back from grazing fields while shooting in the air, he said.He further dismissed media reports that 30 people have been killed in the past two months, saying they numbered 12.Read: Break your silence on bandit attacks at Kerio Valley, Raila tells UhuruNdambuki s press briefing was followed by another one 50m away, by county officials led by Deputy Governor Gabriel Lagat who dismissed the claims as untrue. How can a state official call a press conference when people are being attacked and robbed by bandits? Lagat posed, accusing security agencies of laxity in containing the violence. You cannot keep blaming the media and leaders when they expose the truth, he said.IG Joseph Boinnet, who was in Keiyo South on Sunday, accused the media of misreporting the attacks.Lagat said Marakwet professionals have been mobilising resources to help locals get food, not funding violence in the area.He blamed Pokot leaders for not cooperating with Elgeyo Marakwet's to end the skirmishes. Security agencies must start questioning some leaders. We heard and saw video clips showing a Pokot senator inciting locals while being installed as a kingpin," he said. "Fighting has intensified since then and he has not been asked to record a statement."Lagat said the two men who were seriously injured during the morning attack that happened near St Paul s Kapkondot Secondary School where candidates sitting for a practical paper.At least 1,500 families have reportedly fled their homes and are now living in caves in the Kerio escarpments.Also read:400 police officers sent to Kerio Valley to keep the peace, recover stolen cows