During the State House Governance and Accountability Summit, is was clear President Uhuru Kenyatta must be very frustrated by top government officials in his war on corruption.The President could not understand how officers mandated to ensure a corruption free system, or at least to curb it, were the ones frustrating these efforts.It was a blame game. Buck-passing, as has been the norm, but now presided over by the visibly angry President.In attendance and on the spotlight were the judiciary, the police, the Director of Public Prosecutions, the Ethics and Anti Corruption Commission and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations.Since none of the participants took responsibility for the failure to tame graft, the blame game can only, therefore, mean they are either accomplices or failures in their job.Soon after the Summit, the President swore in new Chief Justice David Maraga with a categorical message to jail the big fish involved in corruption that has since tarnished the government s image and scared away potential investors. Consequently, is somewhat a show of how serious he is on this, he 'decongested prisons by pardoning 7,000 petty offenders to create room for the corrupt convicts'.But a look and an analysis of some past developments reveals these public servants are not on the wrong. Parliament approved the Ndegwa Commission Report, which allowed public servants to do business opening corruption floodgates and condoning conflicts of interest and sabotage.Conflict of interest reigns supreme as the biggest contributor to graft. When public servants do business with the employer, efficiency is compromises because they concentrate more on their businesses and use their positions to do business with government..Successive Parliaments have frustrated the few attempts to probe corruption in 'high offices'. No wonder they dissolved and restructured some of the anti-corruption watchdogs the Public Accounts Committee and the EACC over 'integrity issues".Kenyans have every reason to excuse President Uhuru for being in the dark about the genesis of the corruption scourge.The fight against corruption in in the present day Kenya is a tall order and history is replete with examples.Jail one leader and his tribesmen will be on the streets demonstrating against the decision claiming their community is being targeted or marginalised. And most of these protesters hardly benefit from the loots. They also don't consult them when they loot public coffers. Communities have themselves to blame for condoning corruption. A good example is in public health facilities where employees steal drugs and divert them to their private clinics and chemists.These same protesters have to buy them at a higher price.The question is, who will take who to court to answer corruption charges? Name one in a public office who is not a beneficiary of graft. The corrupt are the most influential and are the untouchables in society, often invited to preside over mega harambees to construct among others, places of worship and schools.The looters wine and dine with the mighty at the high table. By other names, they are known as development councious leaders who get elected over and over again with ease.Dealing with corruption should not be a public relations exercise. If we do that, it will be an exercise in futility.For the country to redeem its dented image and tame corruption, the Ndegwa Report has to scrapped.