Aden Duale, the Garissa Township MP, who is my good friend since our days in the LDP through to ODM to this day in Parliament, should be told in no uncertain terms that even sycophancy needs some intelligence. His weekend commentary, in a section of the press in defence of the now controversial Northern Collector Tunnel in Murang a county, is the stuff of reckless sycophancy.The Majority leader s main issue with opposition leader Raila Odinga is that he is an anti-corruption crusader and has relentlessly whistleblown many graft cases. Many of them have concerned Jubilee s mega infrastructure projects. Predictably, he rushes to recommend Raila s retirement from active politics. And, to blackmail the Cord leader into silence, he invents a dirty allegation that Raila is bitter for losing out on some 10 per cent kickback, claims he can t substantiate or prove. It is time for Raila to retire from politics is a regular Jubilee chorus. It was their daily song in the first year in office, when they were unable to steady their boat on assuming power.Consequently, Jubilee suffers acute Raila phobia . Why so? Because he is their waking nightmare. He powerfully threatens their main interests which all revolve around corruption, abuse of human rights, dictatorship and bad governance. Actually, the main message in Duale s commentary was, kindly let Jubilee sin in peace . That is why when the opposition revealed massive theft of public cash through the standard gauge railway, the National Youth Service , Eurobond, the Hustler s Jet and the IEBC electoral frauds and now through the Northern Collector Tunnel scandal, the government panicked to a point of threatening arrests, especially on the NYS scandal. When Raila sounded alarm bells over extrajudicial killings, police brutality, selective issuance of Identity cards and domination of top government jobs by two communities and the exclusion of other communities, the regime ran mad and unleashed its army of sycophants to hurl insults at the opposition.In Murang a, why did Water CS Eugene Wamalwa resort to tokenism to win back the county s elected leaders with five dams, each costing Sh50 million, to support the controversial project? Why didn t he, instead, explain to Kenyans all the concerns raised if all is aboveboard as claimed? On public participation, why were residents of downstream counties such as Tana River, Kitui and Garissa not involved? And why is this project top secret unlike other major projects which Jubilee leaders have been trumpeting to win support in 2017? Could the President have been kept unaware of this project and why? If this can happen in his own backyard what kind of country is he leading then?Duale and his ilk should not hoodwink Kenyans by dropping names of Kenya s distinguished development partners such as the World Bank. We know of projects our worthy development partners funded in the past, but ended up messed up through corruption and poor implementation. The Turkwel Gorge Power Project and Free Primary Education are examples. Jubilee should answer questions without harping on the credibility of innocent international financiers who also fall victim of corruption cartels.He reminds us of the biblical prodigal son.His political teacher is Raila, whom he ridicules every now and then. He should not sever relations with him and ODM. He may one day get stranded or get terrorised by his current masters, which is a looming possibility, and see the need to return home ODM. He can learn something from the Charity Charity Ngilu and Chirau Mwakwere experiences.NB: THE WRITER IS ODM NATIONAL TREASURER AND KITUTU-MASABA MEMBER OF PARLIAMENT