President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday issued a stern warning against cheating in the ongoing KCPE and KCSE national examinations.He said individuals will be held accountable for any irregularities that will be reported.Uhuru spoke at State House after meeting Kenya National Union of Teachers, Kenya Union of Post-Primary Education Teachers, Teachers Service Commission and Education ministry officials. He said this year s examinations must uphold the highest integrity. I want to take this opportunity to wish all the KCPE and KCSE candidates all the best in their examinations, Uhuru said. I assure them and their parents that utmost integrity will be the hallmark of the 2016 national examinations. He reiterated the government expects nothing but clean examinations. Uhuru said measures had been put in place to ensure the tests are fair.He commended the teachers unions for their Collective Bargaining Agreement that he said will resolve teachers concerns about working conditions and pay.Uhuru said the newly signed CBA is within government s means. He said, It raises the wages of our teachers. In return, teachers will be assessed more closely and required to raise their standards even higher. Uhuru said the unions demonstrated true leadership and showed patience and good sense throughout the negotiations. They insisted that this agreement, once and for all, ends the labour dispute that interrupted the education of our children last year, he said.Uhuru said the government will initiate other policy measures to support development of the teaching profession. Understanding the teachers is the single-most important factor in the performance of our children in schools.Tthe Education ministry should move with speed to establish the Kenya School of Education before Christmas, he said. From next year, we should start an institutionalised framework for supporting our teachers in professional growth and career development. Kuppet national chairman Omboko Milemba praised Uhuru for his efforts to end the stalemate between teachers and their employer.Secretary general Akelo Misori on Thursday said more than 100,000 teachers will be promoted under the new CBA.He said 71,833 teachers previously in job group N will be promoted to the newly created job group C3. Another 25,000, who were in job group M, will be promoted to job group C4.The lowest paid teacher s salary will rise from Sh16,000 to Sh27,195, while the highest paid school principal will earn Sh157,000, up from Sh109,000.The TSC and Knut signed their first CBA ever, following talks that began in June.The comprehensive bargaining agreement provides that the teachers will be promoted before July next year, scrapping the P1 grade entry level for teachers. Reading the resolutions, TSC CEO Nancy Macharia said the CBA recognises the need to upgrade the lowest entry of a P1 teacher. The deal was reached after a two-day retreat of the union and the commission at Sawela Lodge in Naivasha which ended on Tuesday. Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion said the agreement will change teachers lives positively and boost education standards. He said there are more than 106,000 teachers under the P1 grade who will be promoted in the new agreement. The P1 grade, which is the entry level for all teachers, has been scrapped and all the teachers on that level promoted, meaning they will get a salary increment, Sossion said. He said they will continue to review the CBA, hailed as the first to be signed by teachers in the country s history. Under the CBA, we shall no longer have the industrial unrest that has been the norm among teachers, Sossion said.