Michael Asher was feted for being the first person to make a recorded crossing of the Sahara Desert from East to WestA Langata resident has just been awarded the prestigious Lawrence of Arabia medal. The medal was presented to Michael Asher by the British High Commissioner Nic Hailey last week.The Royal Society of Asian Affairs has only awarded the medal 33 times since it was created in 1936 in recognition of work of outstanding merit in the field of exploration . The last Kenyan resident to receive it was Sir Wilfred Thesiger in 1954.Michael Asher, 63 years, an English teacher at Hillcrest school, was the first person to make a recorded crossing of the Sahara Desert from East to West. He was accompanied by his wife, the accomplished photographer Mariantoinetta Peru.Asher, a former solder in the Paratroops and SAS, has also published 21 books of fiction and non-fiction. He is a fluent Arab speaker. Thirty years ago, I stood on the edge of the Sahara desert at a place called Dongela in the Nile Valley in northern Sudan where I was working as a volunteer teacher. I looked out across this huge landscape and I realised that I could set off in a straight line from that point on foot and travel day after day, week after week, month after month and never come across a road, river or city until I reached the shores of the Atlantic ocean 5000 kilometres away , he told the Star this weekend. It struck me that I was standing on the edge of this alternative dimension, another planet. The Sahara is 9 million square kilometres, as big as the continental United States. That s just wilderness, inhabited by only two million people, mostly nomads at that time, still living in the traditional way, carrying their whole world on the back of camels. They were living in a completely different dimension, not aware of what a nation-state is or a president is, what a government is. I just love huge open spaces, the idea that beyond this world I have been brought up in, the world of motor cars and shopping centres that I had been told was the best of all possible worlds, there was this huge magical place where none of that existed. It was like being able to travel to another planet. I lived for three years in the Sudan with a traditional nomad tribe before I crossed the Sahara. The Kababish had never been in a city, never been in a motorcar, thought the world was flat. They knew nothing about the outside world. I lived as one of them for three years. I wrote a book about it called The Desert Dies ( it happened that year was a year of unusual drought). A few years later I made the first recorded crossing of the Sahara from West to East. We travelled 7,200 kilometres over 271 days. The historical trade routes across the Sahara went north-south, from the Mediterranean to the African interior and back. There was no commercial reason to travel west to east. And the Haj pilgrims used to travel south of the Sahara though the Sahel which means shore in Arabic. Mariantoinetta and I also crossed the Uruq ash-Shaiba, the highest sand dunes in the Empty Quarter of Saudi Arabia in the course of my research for my biography of Wilfred Thesiger. He was one of the first men to cross the Empty Quarter, the biggest sand desert in the world, and I was reconstructing his journey. I have now covered more than 30,000 miles by camel and on foot. When I was in Sudan as a volunteer teacher 30 years ago, someone lent me a dog-eared paperback of Arabian Sands. I looked at picture of the author Wilfred Thesiger on the back and I realised that he was ex-SAS regiment like me. I had read his name in the list of SAS veterans but I did not know anything about him. The book really carried me away. His writing style is so simple, much better than Lawrence of Arabia, but with plenty of little details. By the time I got to the end of that book, I thought that s what I want to do, I want to go and live with the nomads like Wilfred did. I came to Kenya to write his biography 24 years ago. He was living in a cabin in Maralal. I used to stay there with him. He was an Old Etonian and had been to Oxford but he was very very frugal. He used to sleep on the floor and he had a big tub of water and you were only allowed to drink so much water a day. He used to dole it out. There are a few places in the Sahara such as northern Chad. It is the last frontier today. The people who live there are completely unspoiled. You can see them doing the old things that in Sudan have now been lost, like making their own water bottles out of skins. In Sudan they now have plastic jerrycans. On my last trip to Chad, we slaughtered the goats and had them for dinner and then the next day they had made them into water skins. All the old skills are still there. The camel harnesses, the saddles, are still being made in the old way. That s what I loved about the nomads in Ennedi ( in northern Chad). They speak Arabic but it is not their mother tongue. They are black Saharan nomads called the Tubu. Michael Asher lives in Langata. He teaches at Hillcrest School but also organises camel treks into Chad and Sudan. He can be contacted on email at masheruk@yahoo.fr