There is a window of opportunity to tap into the bond market and reduce over-reliance on bank loans as a source of funding. From a government view point, the bond market is a key strategic priority to grow the economy in a sustainable manner. In spite of a relatively active stock market, the bond market remains underdeveloped and unutilised. Currently, the funding provided by the bond market is about 26 per cent of the gross domestic product with 25 per cent to the government. This means that private companies have issued one per cent of GDP of the existing bonds. Of the total bonds outstanding, 96 per cent are issued by the government, and only four per cent by the private sector. Compare this with East Asia (Singapore, Malaysia and so on) where the government holds about 60 per cent, while the private sector holds 40 per cent. Instead locally, most of the funding is from the banking industry, with loans and advances to customers totaling 33 per cent of the GDP. This shows over-reliance on bank loans, and puts pressure on banks to lend even when bonds are better suited for long-term funding. Most bank deposits are below one year, making banks more suited to lend for similar periods below one year. There is a risk when a loan exceeds one year, because it means banks have to look for more deposits to sustain the loan balances. In finance terms, such a situation creates funding mismatches, and the cost of such mismatch is recovered through higher interest rates. This has implications for banking operations if the prescribed maximum lending rate is not adequate to cover the risk premium arising from the funding mismatch. If banks are unable to price the risk within the prescribed rate, then the response is to reduce the level of long-term loans. Consequently long-term projects are one of the areas likely to experience lower access to finance in the new regime of regulated interest rates. And yet the path to sustainable economic development requires increased funding for long-term capital investments such as in equipment and machinery, as well as housing. The arising demand for long-term funding calls for innovative forms of finance, which can be served by a developed bond market. Furthermore, the emerging pension fund industry is a potential source of investors for the bond market. Currently, only six per cent of the more than Sh815 billion funds held in pension funds is invested in bonds issued by the private sector.