Deputy President William Ruto has asked the opposition to stop politicizing the war on corruption maintaining that due process must be followed. Ruto said the opposition is using corruption as a campaign strategy because they have no agenda for the country. If we want to win the war on corruption let us fight corruption based on truth and facts and not political sideshows. The Deputy President said the opposition has been targeting Jubilee flagship projects with unsubstantiated corruption allegations. Also read: Raila alleges Sh162 billion import revenue scam by JubileeHe cited the Standard Guage Railway, the digital literacy program, Erurobond and the free maternity program.The DP was speaking on Sunday at Kapyemit primary school in Turbo constituency during an inter-denomination prayer service for Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) candidates.Ruto assured parents and students that this year s national examinations will be credible saying the government has put in place robust measures to ensure candidates sitting the exams are graded fairly based on their academic capabilities. I want to confirm arrangements have been made to make sure that our children participate in national examinations devoid of cheating. The Deputy President said the government had paid examination fees for the over 1.5 million students who will sit the exams beginning Tuesday. We do not want a situation where a student in class eight or form four cannot sit for their final examination because of lack of examination fees, he said. The DP was accompanied by MPs Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), Elisha Busienei (Turbo), Njogu Barua (Gichugu) and James Bett (Kesses).Barua echoed Ruto s sentiments about politicizing the war on corruption saying the "noise" about the ministry of health is a political attack aimed at tarnishing President Uhuru Kenyatta s reputation. Read: Raila asks Uhuru to take responsibility for Sh5 billion allegationsKuria said the Jubilee administration has an outstanding development track record the opposition cannot match and that is why they have resorted to using personalized attacks. If the competition is about development we will win but if the competition is political gimmicks they will win. The legislator accused Cord Leader Raila Odinga of applying double standards in the fight against corruption saying he protected corrupt allies during his reign as Prime Minister in the grand coalition government. During his time, (James) Orengo was caught up in a land scam and when (Charity) Ngilu was linked to corruption in the water ministry, he defended her saying people should not be condemned unheard. But right now he s the one shouting about corruption on the basis of an interim report, said Kuria. The MP said he was ready to resign if allegations made by Raila on the Afya House scandal turns out to be true. [VIDEO] I will resign if 'Mafia House' scandal is proven, says Moses KuriaHe challenged the former Prime Minister to similarly quit politics if the scandal at the health ministry turns out to have been a false alarm.Kuria also cautioned the opposition chief from associating President Uhuru's relatives with the alleged corruption at Afya House. [VIDEO] We got Sh41 million health tender legally - Uhuru cousinRuto echoed his sentiments saying the president's relatives should not be targeted for merely being related to him."So now they are attacking the President's sister just because she 's a relative to the president. Who said a president should not have sisters who do business?"He said the president's relatives must be respected in their own right as Kenyans who have a right to do business in the country.More on this: AG reveals names behind Afya House companies, dismisses report of missing files