The former Britain and Finland rally champion Tapio Laukannen hopes to seal the 2016 Kenya National Rally Championship title in Kajiado County on November 6 during the penultimate stage of the series.Should the Flying Finn return his Subaru Impreza GVB13 R4 machine to the podium in second overall position in the forthcoming KCB Kitengela Rally, he will savour a maiden title on Kenya soil. We are looking forward to yet another great outing with my teammate Manvir (Baryan). Kajiado will be a very important rally for me though a second overall position will guarantee me the coveted title. Last year, we were pretty fast but skipping Kajiado and retiring on Safari while leading by a massive margin ended our title aspirations, said Tapio.Tapio, who is incidentally racing on a Kenyan competition licence, has literally swept the ground with all his opponents since joining the KNRC in 2012. The winner of the last three rallies is indeed 29 points adrift the leader. Tapio leads the KNRC series with 129 points against Jaspreet Chatthe s 100.If the Flying Finn wins the penultimate Kitengela Rally, he will savour his maiden title on Kenyan soil. And should Chatthe win Kitengela Rally and Tapio settles for second, the Finn will have racked up an unassailable 150 points to Chatthe s 125 meaning the season closing Guru Nanak Rally will be a mere formality.Other top drivers expected to spice up the occasion include Onkar Rai, Rajbir Rai, Baldev Chager, Carl Flash Tundo and Ian Duncan who is also the KNRC Group N leader. Duncan and his co-driver Amaar Slatch will drive a Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution X under the Liquid Telecom Racing banner. Sammy Nyorri, Alex Lairangi, champion Leonardo Varese and leader Eric Bengi are the main suspects in the 2WD class.Bengi leads the 2WD log on 131 ahead of Lairangi, who is a point adrift. Baryan and Rajbir Rai will run the crowd-pleasing Ford Fiesta R5 cars which are yet to win an event in Kenya thus far.There is also a non-homologated Ford Fiesta Proto for Flash Tundo also going for its maiden win on Kenyan soil. Tundo s Proto will score points towards the main KNRC class and the Specially Prepared Vehicle (SPV) category. Division 1 driver Asad Khan Kalulu will also score SPV points in his Subaru contraption. Tundo finished fourth in Eldoret and hopes to go for nothing shot of a podium finish in Kitengela Rally.There s a fabulous fight in prospect in the KNRC Division 2 category which has attracted KNRC regulars with a mix of cars that include the Subaru Impreza N12 of leader Mahesh Halai and Toyota RunX of second placed Bengi. Group S has the series leader Chandrakhant Devji Chandu pushing for more championship in his Subaru GC8. The rally, which was initially programmed for Nakuru, gets underway from KCB Kitengela branch on November 6. The event organised by Equator Motor Club will feature three stages which will be repeated twice for a competitive total of 140km and a liaison distance of 134km.The designated Spectator Stage will be situated at the start of the 44km CS3 stage near Kajiado airstrip. The Service Park will be centred at Kajiado field next to Total filling Station. The ceremonial finish and prize giving will be held at the Spectator Stage (2km from service) from 5:00pm onwards.