In business, reputation is vital. The public perception of your name determines their behavior towards you. That s why reputation management is now a major concern for many organizations. An awful tweet could send stock prices crashing. It s wise for businesses to take measures to maintain a healthy public image.Excellent delivery is one way to sustain a good reputation. This is done by ensuring that each step in your value stream delivers on its promise. Also, adhering to other image boosting concepts can help advance your business. For instance, if your business is predictable, exceeds expectations and is able to successfully multiply, your reputation would hardly suffer. Let me explain.Exceed Expectation: Successful businesses specialize in exceeding expectations by applying one simple principle: they under promise and over deliver. To win, entrepreneurs must be skilled at managing expectations and know how to pleasantly surprise customers with extra. We seldom forget exceeded expectations and usually can t wait to share the experience with others.Be Predictable: Most men use the same barber for years. This is because these gentlemen experience predictable service. No undue surprises or fresh tutoring needed. The men s expectations are clear and they are met repeatedly by the barber.When customers come to your business, what exactly are they going to get? Is it clearly communicated and are you able to deliver predictably? Does your Cappuccino taste different with every visit to your coffee shop? Would customers regret staging a comeback based on their last experience? Was the good time a one off? If you can t reliably and consistently deliver good service, I doubt you will survive the competition.Multiply: Recently, I visited Arusha. While there, I needed to buy some supplies. And guess where I went? Nakumatt. Yes, they re in Arusha same feel, service and business model. Coming from Nairobi, I felt at home. Nakumatt first built a proven model in Kenya and then took it around East Africa. Their ability to multiply has put them in position to serve more people.You build the capacity to multiply by creating a solid business model that works in any market and a good distribution system. Businesses stay small because they re not able to pull things off on a larger scale, hence limiting their service delivery. In business, the more value you re able to deliver to more people, the wealthier you become. And when you do it excellently on a large scale, then the sky isn t the limit, but the starting point.