Kenya has for the second time been asked by the IAAF to speedy up preparations for the 2017 World under-18 Championships.Only last week, a team from the world governing body observed that Kenya needs to do a lot in the shortest time possible and this was the second message from another team of technical delegates yesterday.Three delegates from IAAF are in the country led by Luis Saladie, Jose Luis de Carlos and Sylvia Barlag. Upon touring Kasarani s main and warm up stadia as well as the Kenyatta University proposed athletes village, the delegates observed that a lot needs to be done.Barlag observed that for this reason, the IAAF will second a manager to the Local Organising Committee led by chairman and Athletics Kenya president Jackson Tuwei and chief executive officer Mwangi Muthee.She said the yet to be named manager will arrive in the country next month for preparations towards the event that will host over 1,500 athletes from the IAAF member countries. We would have loved to have a ready stadium so that just a few minor adjustments are made but all the same there is a great structure here, said Barlag. However, we are impressed by the commitment of the LOC and we believe everything will fall in place and Kenya will host a wonderful event next year. IAAF will send a manager to help the LOC with technical advice so that progress on scheduled work is realised. On the arrangements in place to host the youngsters at a village at KU, Barlag said: It is important to host all the young athletes at one place like the proposed venue rather than scatter them in hotels all over the city. The face lift at Kenyatta university s Nyayo dormitories will be important for others who will use it afterwards and in that way this IAAF event will in some way be a legacy. Muthee observed that there is commitment from the government. There was to be a top level meeting between the LOC, the ministry of sports, treasury and the presidency and was only pushed forward due to the visit by these IAAF delegates, said Mwangi. We must work together as Kenyans, the LOC, the government, the IAAF and the media to ensure a successful event. We have set ourselves a time-line of April next year to complete everything and let the competition, warm up and training tracks to heal ahead of the championships. You know I am not known for mincing words and I assure you if we feel something is not right, we will say so, reiterated the Ceo.