Interior CS Joseph Nkaiserry tore into opposition leaders Raila Odinga and Hassan Joho on Tuesday saying they have failed Coast residents.Nkaissery said Joho's Mombasa government has nothing to show for the more than Sh32 billion it has received from the exchequer for the last four years.He said this in answer to concerns by area MP Omar Mwinyi, who said the national government has sidelined Mombasa leading to no development.Mwinyi added that political games have resulted in unemployment and lack of essential services in the health and education sectors. We do not need harambees. We only need the government to open the cheques books and give money for the revival of factories like the Kenya Petroleum Refinery, he said. Issues of health are disturbing our people. You have to do harambees if your sick relatives stay in government hospitals for more than two weeks. So we need free health services and free education."Read: We will not allow Jubilee to steal 2017 election, Joho saysAlso read: We will teach Jubilee a lesson for starving Mombasa - JohoBut Nkaissery told him to direct his questions to Joho, whom he said has received money for the government and has county revenue. The Mombasa county government has (money) but there are no roads it has constructed, there is no water it has brought here - there is nothing," he said."Electricity was brought by the national government,' he said, further noting health was a devolved function.The Cabinet Secretary asked how the money has been spent in his address at the Akamba Handicraft Industry in Changamwe.He asked the MP to set his party affiliation aside and ask the Governor the tough questions. Ask those questions. Or do I have to come here and ask for you? And I am not only talking about the Mombasa county government; all county governments collect revenue. Where do they take the money? he asked. Do not fear Joho. He will not vote for you. His vote is in another area. You are fighting for your Changamwe people. They are the ones you should fear."He said he was not merely politicking as the people have a right to know what county governments are doing with the revenue they collect. He asked Auditor General Edward Ouko to look into this and inform the public.On Raila and fellow Cord co-principals Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang ula, Nkaissery said they had no right to talk about land injustices at the Coast yet they were Prime Minister, Vice President and Foreign Affairs minister for long.They should have used their positions to ensure the people of the Coast got their land rights. They told you if you elected Uhuru, your land 'will go'. Has anyone seen any land being grabbed since Uhuru took over? Hasn t he instead been issuing title deeds? asked the CS.He accused the co-principals of hate mongering.Also read: Of Joho, Uhuru and governors' role in 2017