The beauty of nature can be covered in many ways, but for Geraldine Robarts, art is the mode through which she expresses such beauty and the positive side of her as seen in her recent exhibition at the Village Market, Windows to the Mind .Just as the word suggests, the exhibition gives a glimpse into the mind of the artist, and calls for reflection in the mind of the viewer. And Robarts has selected a variety of materials and concepts that brings a common ground for all viewers: acceptance and appreciation.With over 60 years in her art career, Robarts has used canvas, paper, diamonds, crystals sparkle and resin. In this exhibition, she has punctuated her paintings with artefacts and even used the original Daisy Rothschild droppings in a painting with the same name. When making a painting, the most important thing to me is the preservation of the canvas- the sense that it has been created to survive and its longevity is certain. These paintings done in the best materials will live long after the artist, she said.In Daisy Giraffe, she collaborated with Anthony Russell to create a photomontage of a giraffe in the wilderness. Using oil paints, artefacts and resin, Robarts is able to channel the waves and contour of the wild. The selection of brown, gold, green and red colours, completes the camouflage and you need to look at the painting keenly not to miss out the bits and pieces of zebras, cheetahs and other giraffes.In a splendid contrast, Robarts captures the openness of spaces in the Heaven Sent series of paintings. In Heaven Sent I, she uses green and grey to reflect the serenity of it all and in Heaven Sent II, the blues reminds one of the beauty and expanse of the sea. Also exhibited were the Transcendental Collection , a series of paintings worked on burnt canvas before being placed on a white canvas, on which Robarts paints over with oil and covers with resin. The result is a collection that is mysterious yet illuminating. This is just one of the methods Robarts uses to create her art. She is also known to transform canvas by cutting them with a panga or even scrapping off layers of paint on canvas using a cement scrapper. I think of my paintings as one surface after another; each calls for a new decision consistent with what is actually there, she adds.One of the paintings that tugs at the heart is Jacob s Ladder. It features green tiny footsteps up a ladder set against a brown and gold background. The combination of the green and brown creates a beautiful contrast, with the viewer drawn in by the green without being overwhelmed.With over 100 paintings in the exhibition, Robarts belives that art humanises society and reminds us that we are more than just physical bodies.The exhibition closes on October 31.