Tunisia women s under-23 team s participation in the 2017 World Championship qualifiers starting tomorrow at Moi, Kasarani, hangs in the balance.The North Africans are yet to confirm participation despite hosts Kenya having written to them to declare their status.Kenya volleyball Federation (KVF) secretary general Ben Juma said they had written to Tunisia alongside other participants but the North Africans have remained mum. Botswana, Rwanda and Senegal are already in the Country and ready for competition while Egypt are expected to arrive tomorrow (today) morning. However, there is little I can say about the Tunisians because they are yet to respond to the invitational letter the federation sent to them, said the official.He added: We hope they will just surprise us between today (Friday) and tomorrow but as it is now, we can t say much. But as a nation, we are ready to host the event that will see top two teams qualify for next year s World Championship in Ljubljana and Maribo in Slovenia. We call upon all the fans to turn up in large numbers and support the youngster. However, an official from African Volleyball Confederation CAVB, who sought anonymity said, Tunisia was likely to skip the four-day event.The official said: With the information I have, they will not feature in event. But it s up to the Tunisia team to write to the Kenya Volleyball Federation and inform them about the new development. With Tunisia yet to arrive in the country, the event will feature five nations including hosts Kenya, Senegal, Egypt, Botswana and Rwanda. Meanwhile, participating teams are scheduled to hold a technical meeting today at the Safaricom Indoor Arena, Kasarani, where the draw will be conducted. In the absence of Tunisia, it is not clear whether the technical meeting will opt for pooling or round robin format.Elsewhere, Busia (men) and Mauko (women) won the Mashujaa Day volleyball crowns at the Busia County Stadium on Thursday.Busia under the tutelege of coach Gerald Olumasi were crowned champions after beating Funyula 2-0 (25-9,25-15) in the final that was reduced to best of three sets due to blackout. Mauko won the women s title after beating Busia 3-0 (25-21, 25-19, 25-23). Winners received trophies and Sh10,000 from the event s sponsor Richard Sanya, an MCA aspirant for Burumba ward. St. Mathias Busia Boys High School took third position after beating Burumba 2-0 in the playoff.Sanya promised to sponsor more events in a bid to nurture talent that abounds in the ward. Event coordinator Fredrick Mwanga appealed to more well wishers to emulate Sanya and help discover the untapped talentb in the county.