Two-time world marathon champion Edna Kiplagat has been awarded the Abbott World Marathon Majors Series for 2014 following the nullification of drug cheat Rita Jeptoo s winning result at the 2014 Chicago Marathon.The announcement means Kiplagat will now pocket the Sh50m cash prize that comes with winning the series composed of Boston, London, Berlin, Chicago, New York City and Tokyo marathons.AbbottWMM general manager Tim Hadzima said: We can now finally say that justice has been served and that Edna Kiplagat has received the recognition she deserves. On Wednesday, the Court of Arbitration for Sports upheld an appeal by the IAAF, doubling Jeptoo s initial two-year ban and keeping her out of competition until October 30, 2018 in addition to quashing all of her results from April 17, 2014. Jeptoo has also been given a lifetime ban from AbbottWMM s marathons. We are disappointed that due process took so long but we are delighted that at last we are able to acknowledge Edna Kiplagat, said Hadzima. We will continue to work with the IAAF and other organisations to facilitate our extensive additional out-of-competition testing program for marathon runners, and to do all that we can to reach our goal of eradicating doping. Kiplagat joins Kenya s Wilson Kipsang at the top of the AbbottWMM Series VIII leader board. The two athletes amassed the most points based on finishes in a two-year series They included the 2013 Tokyo, Boston, London, Berlin, Chicago and New York City marathons, the 2013 IAAF World Championships and the 2014 Tokyo, Boston, Virgin Money London, Berlin, Chicago and New York City marathons. Every marathon runner dreams of winning this title. It means so much to me and my family, said Kiplagat, who has a personal best of 2:19:50 clocked at the 2012 London Marathon.In January this year, Kiplagat had called on authorities to ensure she gets the winnings after the suspension of the previous winner Russia s Liliya Shobukhova and Jeptoo.Kiplagat observed that the duo had been suspended for doping violations and she was therefore the rightful winner after finishing second on the standings on both occasions. Kiplagat said her drive had been dented by losing out to drugs cheats. My talent is being wasted. I don t have any motivation, said Kiplagat. Shobukhova and Jeptoo have been suspended but I have not been paid what was due to me. 