Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi has dismissed media reports he has agreed to work with President Uhuru Kenyatta.He yesterday termed untrue an article in one of the dailies that suggested he has shifted allegiance from ODM to the Jubilee Party. Addressing a press conference at his official residence, Kingi said the newspaper misrepresented the facts.&ldquo;I have received several calls from people of Kilifi and everyone is complaining that I have betrayed them by working with a government that couldn&rsquo;t care less about them. I did notunderstand why they were saying this until I read the papers. The information is very wrong and I have never dreamt of working with the Jubilee government,&rdquo; he saidKingi was accompanied by Kilifi Senator Stewart Madzayo and several MCAs.Kingi said his working relationship with the national government is as stipulated in the Intergovernmental Relations Act.&ldquo;The journalist who wrote this article came here to interview me and what I told him is that we have very little projects from the national government and they come very late. I am wondering where he got all this. I have talked to him on the phone and he could not answer my questions. What I want is an apology,&rdquo; he saidKingi has been a critic of the Jubilee administration and an ardent follower of Cord leader Raila Odinga.A group of ODM youths in the county were planning to hold a demonstration to condemn Kingi&rsquo;s decision to &lsquo;decamp&rsquo; to Jubilee.Kilifi North ODM youth leader Asili Randani said the article had demoralised many youths &ldquo;who were sure of Kingi&rsquo;s firm stand on party matters&rdquo;.&ldquo;We have called on the governor to book an urgent appointment over the same. We wanted to tell him off, if at all that was his decision. We cannot allow him to work with a government that has no plans of lifting us from poverty. We saw him as a traitor,&rdquo; he said.Kingi said his allegiance to ODM still remains.&ldquo;Journalists must publish facts. I want to believe that this was not done with an aim of discrediting me against other leaders,&rdquo; he said.Yet to be resolved historical injustices at the Coast are frustrating Jubilee&rsquo;s effort&rsquo;s to win over voters.Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto have visited the region many times in search of votes and have commissioned many projects.