Kenyan Tennis ace Sneha Kotecha has opted out of the Confederation of African Cup of Nations to compete in the girls 14 and under CAT Masters slated for November 7-14 at the Public Service Club, Nairobi.Kotecha is ranked fourth in Africa and will feature in the Masters that draws top eight girls players in the continent. She also made the cut to the national team that will take part in the Africa Cup of Nation set for around the same time next month.Kotecha s coach Rosemary Owino intimated that she prefers the girl to play in her age category instead of battling more mature and physically superior opposition. Though Kotecha opted out of the Cup of Nation s line-up, she still trains with the team as part of preparations for the Masters. Kotecha is a good player. She can offer stiff competition to players older than her though we saw it fit for her to play in her age category. Besides both events will run concurrently and this makes it difficult for her to enter in both tourneys, noted Owino. We have been training for the Masters for the last three weeks and we are stepping up our preparation. Tactically, we got more work to do but she is physically fit and mentally strong to compete for the Masters, added Owino,. She intimate that tournament s seed one and ITF East Africa Training Centre (Nairobi)-trained Aisha Niyonkuru of Burundi, South African trio of seed two Loibser Makayla, third ranked Lara Van Der Merwe and Rochelle Pienaar will be Kotecha s biggest challenge.Other girls, who are expected to feature in the 14 and under Masters include Nigeria duet of Barakat Quadre and Marylove Edward, and South Africa s Delien Kleinhans. In the case one of the above players doesn t honor the tourney, Africa s ninth-placed Anjela Okutoyi will fill in the gap.In the boys category, Africa s seed two in the boys 14 and under category Ryan Randiek will battle to claim the Masters crown. Randiek, who trains at the ITF East Africa Training Centre, will face top ranked Damien Laporte (Seychelles), Michael Osewa, Gabriel Friday (Nigeria), Khololwam Montsi, Andreas Scott (South Africa), Christopher Fok Kwo (Mauritius) and Elyes Marouaniel (Tunisia).