Event organiser Big Kev is currently recovering from another brain surgery to remove tumours. This is not the first time, Big Kev has undergone other surgeries for his recurrent meningioma and two blood clots.Big Kev has pulled through all the surgeries that now total 13 surgeries. The TruBlaq CEO is luck to be blessed with a strong support system of friends and family having his back.Big Kev who just came from surgery, updated his friends and family on how he is fairing.He wrote on Facebook,"W'sup guys,Thank you so much for the love that you've shown during this period. I think its only fair that I let you know what you're praying for.Unfortunately, I was diagnosed with recurrent meningioma and two blood clots, one in the lung and the other in the ankle. Situation was critical.. We asked for opinion everywhere, here at home, the leading doctors and as far a field as Germany, Switzerland, USA, UK, Israel and once again India."I was told collective opinion wise it had come to far and doctors here had asked to prepare for special care because I had between 20-30 days to live, one of the tumors had become too big, they were FIVE of them. Only two hospitals asked for me to be taken.. A hospital in India and another in Israel, so we had to make a choice.. Stay here and accept my fate, go to Israel with no medical history or give it one more shot with the Doctors in India. Because of the blood clots in the lung and size of the tumors it was even a challenge to travel."We had a maximum of TEN days to organize for this whole trip my family and a few close friends were able to pull it off in few days. I went through surgery on the 10th Oct, 2016. They removed the FIVE tumors bringing to a total the number of tumors removed from my head in the last seven years to THIRTEEN. Through into the pulmonary embolisms for good measure. We made it back home, I'm in Kenya recovering and I'm thinking surely Isn't Thirteen tumors and two PE's in seven years too much for one to handle however strong?!"Big Kev continued, "I'm waiting for scans to confirm the operation was successful, and the scans will be repeated every few months to ensure we are out of danger.This entire experience has changed me forever. I will regularly share my experiences, reports, scans and progress on my new page Shekinah Glory. Kindly like the page and let's see how this one plays out. Glad to be alive! Phil 4:13 I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. Share widely, so that someone else may be encouraged!"