Oh, shock, and horror! These pesty buggers have been bothering me all week, and I even feel like I should now be walking on stilts! Damn these hairy caterpillars, which seem to drop from the sky and resume to bombard the kitchen AND the front door, so there is no way out! Sneakily creeping along with their million legs, they find their way into the most inconvenient of places, including the door knobs, window grills, mats, the fridge door Oh, woe unto me, where are they?My mum calls it an irrational fear, my sister laughs her head off, while dad seems to be silently amused, although he did once go on a killing spree with a slipper. I, however, am always in a continuous state of panic. I will be honest and confess that I keep rubbing my arms and legs, as if suffering from measles or chickenpox, as well as raking my fingers through my hair, in case one fell from a tree above, meaning I would only feel it when it decided to get untangled from my afro onto my bare skin Oh, God forbid!So one evening, with uncharacteristic courage, I put on my helmet (bright yellow hat), grabbed my sword (an old broom) and set out to annihilate these creepy crawleys. As soon as I set foot outside, the mother of all caterpillars was right next to me, creeping its way forward. With a shout and a quick sweep, I flung it onto the grass beyond. This, I knew, was not a permanent solution, but I had to act quickly, as two more swarmed towards me in their disturbing unnatural walk. Sweep, Sweep, Swoosh, Swoosh went my sword, and I quickly realised they do not like water. So what better way to get rid of them, than to indulge them in a swim?Pushing bug after bug into the gutter, those wiry creatures hung onto the walls, windowsills, washing buckets and even to my own broom. War? They want war? I thought. Well, you shall have it! Rolling up my pants, I proceeded to scoop almost 20 of them into the drain, and upon seeing some creeping back out, I indulged them with a whole jug of water to complete the task. Yes, please God forgive me for flushing your creatures, but seriously, I had been tip-toeing around like a flamingo, almost getting a mini-heart attack at the sight of these awful creatures. May they rest in peace in whatever hole they came out from. And may they never come out again!