In last week s column, we talked about the so-called tyranny of numbers , and how Kenyans certainly feel Kenyan, but also believe that other Kenyans organise politically along ethnic lines, and tribal exclusion is believed to be the rule and not the exception. Whether this is actually true or not is not the issue; in any case, it is one of those axiomatic truths in the dominant Kenyan political imagination, in other words, self-evident and really not worth questioning. The result is that voting in Kenya tends to be defensively and fundamentally an ethnic census or, as one scholar wryly put it, in this kind of political climate, voting is nothing more than a cultural phenomenon. Perceptions matter, and the paper I referred to last week by Michael Bratton and Mwangi S. Kimenyi goes deeper into demonstrating just how much. The researchers showed that Kenyans often trace the source any felt ethnic discrimination to the performance of the central government. In this case, the gap in perceptions between people of Kikuyu and Luo heritage is profound, and it is the sharpest gap of any two communities surveyed in 2007, in a nationally representative sample of 1,200 respondents. People of Luo origin were five times more likely than people of Kikuyu origin to see their group s economic conditions and influence in national politics as worse than others . They are ten times more likely than Kikuyu to attribute this state of affairs to discrimination by incumbent officeholders in the nation s central government. In the starkest distinction of all, Luo are twenty-five times more likely than Kikuyu to say that government treats their ethnic group unfairly, the scholars say. If you look at poverty data by county, available on the government s Open Data platform, you will see the gap Kiambu, Muranga and Nyeri counties have a poverty rate of between 25 and 32%, while in Siaya, Kisumu and Homa Bay it is between 35 and 45%. Still, it is important to note the Kenya national average is 46.6%, so the view that Nyanza is necessarily poorer than the rest of Kenya is not explicitly supported by the data. But perceptions don t work that way. One could argue that the 35-45% poverty rate experienced in Nyanza could be closer to the 25% or thereabout in Central, if it wasn t for decades of systematic discrimination by respective governments. Then here s where it gets really interesting. The survey s initial findings were that 80% of Kenyans do not prioritise their ethnic identity when describing themselves, indeed nearly four in ten (37%) insist having no other distinction other than being Kenyans . But in line with the cognitive dissonance between people s self-perception and actual voting behaviour, those calling themselves Kenyans are no less likely to be motivated by ethnic origins over policy issues. In other words, the so-called Kenyans still refer to their ethnic origins when deciding how to vote just as much as those who are more upfront about admitting their allegiances to kinship ties. Most intriguing is that among so-called Kenyans , ethnic origins propel voting behavior most for the Kikuyu-Embu-Meru groups and for the Kamba. By contrast, those Luo who regard themselves as Kenyans make no reference to their ethnic origins when making voting decisions. The scholars then ask: Does this mean that the Kikuyu and related tribes equate their own ethnicity with national identity? Are they hinting that they see themselves as the only true Kenyans? You have probably heard versions of this story, as told Michela Wrong, author of the Anglo Leasing expos It s Our Turn To Eat, this time in a 2008 article in Slate magazine, in which she examines these ideas of entitlement. She quotes John Kiriamiti, himself an author and publisher of several books. "If you did an experiment and took five Luos, five Luhyas, five Kambas, and five Kikuyus and gave them money to invest, you would see the result," Kiriamiti tells Wrong. "The Kikuyu would be far, far ahead." His business partner, Njoroge Gicheha, chimes in. "You cannot compare a fisherman in Nyanza who simply pulls a fish from the lake to a farmer who plants beans in Central Province and waits six months to harvest. The fact is, we work harder than other Kenyans." The obviously problematic nature of these statements including the unstated premise that skills in multiplying money are necessarily the same ones needed to run a country properly, that prosperity in business makes one deserving of national leadership, or the grossly unscientific view that fishing is simply pulling and nothing more is a whole other story. But one could argue that politics is nothing more than a contest of ideologies. And ideologies become more important in times of uncertainty, such as if you don t know your next meal will come from, or whether your degree will be worth the paper it is printed on when you graduate. You ve seen it in the US too, where demographic and structural change has plunged parts of the Right into a deep existential crisis, and you have a demagogue rising to the top. All ideologies contain unverified, and (far more significantly) unverifiable elements, they have sources in the guts as well as the mind, and neither logic nor empirical observation can resolve visceral disagreements , argues political science scholar Robert Higgs. Who knows if Kikuyus are more hard-working than others, or if Luos are always treated unfairly? The real answer to this question is not important, because everyone knows (their) answer. Christine Mungai is a writer, journalist and executive editor of Africa data visualiser/ explainer site Africapedia.com