Opposition chiefs have blasted President Uhuru Kenyatta for publicly admitting he has hit a brick wall in the war on graft and asked him to resign.Some Cord leaders have criticised Uhuru s riot act to Auditor General Edward Ouko for allegedly exposing the looting of government coffers, terming the remarks uncivil and in extreme bad taste .Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka told the Star that Uhuru s Tuesday admission of helplessness was a call on voters to kick out Jubilee in 2017.Read: [VIDEO] Frustrated Uhuru scolds state officials on rampant corruption He has thrown his arms in the air and that is why we are saying Jubilee is incapable of fighting corruption, he said.Addressing a Governance and Accountability Summit at State House, Uhuru said he had done all within his powers to tame runaway graft and kept asking the audience, What do you want me to do? And the President admitted on live television that he was frustrated . Do you want me to go and get a firing squad at Uhuru Park so that people can be happy? an agitated Uhuru asked, blaming the judiciary and other anti-graft agencies for stalling the war on corruption.Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi was the first to hit at Uhuru and said the President s remarks amounted to a surrender to corruption cartels. This is not the kind of response expected of a President determined to root out corruption, he said. The posture of helplessness doesn t inspire the war on corruption. What then is the message to ordinary Kenyans? That they should learn to live with corruption, which takes away their livelihoods? Top civil society actors and some ODM leaders censured the President for allegedly singling out Ouko. It was in extreme bad taste and most uncivil for the President to single out the Auditor General for a tongue-lashing in public. It smacks of dictatorship, ODM secretary for Political Affairs Opiyo Wandayi said. He urged the President to resign before the party considers impeaching him.Civil Society Reference Group coordinator Suba Churchill said Uhuru s doublespeak on graft became apparent when he took on Ouko who continuously does a commendable job . Instead of focusing on the failings of the EACC, which is used to protect certain individuals that are regarded as sacred cows, or focusing on the DPP, which again has largely failed, he [Uhuru] focused on the Auditor General, he said.Though he blasted Ouko in his address, Uhuru did not spare the other agencies and strongly criticised the EACC, the DPP, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and the judiciary.More on this: 'Cry baby' Uhuru faces KOT wrath after corruption frustration