Cord leader Raila Odinga has rubbished investigations into the alleged loss of Sh5 billion at the Health ministry as a cover-up.Raila said the probe is only meant to hoodwink Kenyans into believing the government is serious in the war against corruption. If anything is going to come out of those investigations, it is a cover-up. All they are looking for is evidence so they can hide it," he said.[VIDEO] EACC officials storm Afya House as Sh5 billion theft probe kicks offRead: AG reveals names behind Afya House companies, dismisses report of missing filesRaila told the media at Capitol Hill in Nairobi on Friday that an internal audit report laid bare the rot at the ministry.The opposition leader said the report was a finished product of a complete audit and that there was therefore no need for further investigations. What the Auditor General needs to do now is to take the report and analyse it, he said.Health CS Cleopa Mailu said on Thursday that the theft claims resulted from an audit report that was reportedly leaked to the media before those implicated could respond.Raila, who is Cord leader, released his statement moment after Mailu issued one at Afya House following a meeting with EACC officials.Mailu assured the public that the investigation will leave no stone unturned and that a report will be made public mid next week.He noted forensic experts from the ministry and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission were looking into the matter.But Raila said the Cabinet Secretary's claim, that the names of those involved cannot be revealed yet, was "rubbish" since the audit report contains all the details. This is an internal report, meaning that the auditor has already investigated. So you are just going to be taken around in circles we are investigating this...we are investigating that ," he said."It is an investigation on top of an investigation, and that is how it is in Jubilee. They will investigate until the cows come back home."The opposition chief challenged President Uhuru Kenyatta to emulate Tanzanian leader John Magufuli, Rwanda s Paul Kagame and Nigeria s Muhammadu Buhari in dealing with corrupt government officials. I gave the President free advice last week; follow the route of President Magufuli. People are in jail in Tanzania. President Kagame took his own brother to jail he goes to visit him on weekends," he said."That s when you will be able to reign in this animal called corruption. But if other people are untouchable, then the so-called war on corruption is all rubbish."He said he gave Uhuru the advice as a friend and brother but that the rest is up to him.Read: Take responsibility on corruption matters, Raila tells UhuruRaila added that a cartel similar to that involved in the Sh791 million National Youth Service scam exists in Mailu's ministry.Culprits in the NYS case were turned to state witnesses, he said, adding: "the innocent are the ones accused. It is all basically a cover-up. There is a cartel which is holding them hostage."Raila also criticised the State House summit on governance and accountability saying it was all a public relations gimmick.He said Uhuru should have held the summit outside State House in Nairobi had he been serious about addressing corruption - a matter of national interest. State House is the President s residence. If you walk in there you are not talking to the President as equals. You are within his compound; it is like holding a meeting in a prison, he said.He added that the President's attack on invited guests who did not turn up for the summit was "uncalled for and disappointing".Raila said Uhuru should have taken the meeting to KICC, to which everyone has equal access."That is what we used to do with (former president Mwai) Kibaki, he said.He added that Uhuru should have arranged to meet people such as former anti-corruption Czar John Githongo and lawyer David Ndii at the Office of the President. That is where matters of government are supposed to be transacted. State House is only available for state functions," he said.Raila also noted a head of government should work from his office, and swear people in at State House in line with the role of head of state. That was basically a PR exercise. If sometimes you say what they don t like, you are cut off. We want to engage in an environment which is open, he said.Read more: Could this this be a turning point in fight against corruption?