State-controlled electricity producer, KenGen, is this week finalising a feasibility study for proposed Olkaria Industrial Park in Naivasha targeting large industries with cheaper geothermal steam. Managing director Albert Mugo said the study, undertaken by undisclosed consultant from South Korea, will form the blueprint for the building of the Olkaria Industrial Park under the Special Economic Zones programme. The publicly traded company sells electricity directly to the industries under the plan, overstepping the Kenya Power which presently enjoys a near-monopoly status. A few international investors from East Asia had expressed interest in setting up factories, largely for processing paper and cotton. But negotiations were stopped pending the recommendation of the feasibility study to be approved by the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Co-operatives, Mugo said. Definitely in the course of 2017, we expect to see some activities, he said yesterday in Nairobi. We halted that (negotiations with investors) a bit to wait for the feasibility study because we realised that if we move ahead with a few developers, we may end up with a situation where we have scattered developments which are not well planned. The industrial zone is part of KenGen's revenue diversification strategy which includes commercial drilling, consultancy services, commercialisation of the Olkaria geothermal spa, and setting up of a container freight station. The firm targets to grow non-electricity earnings to more than a third of the total revenues in the near-term, from 23.49 per cent, or Sh9.07 billion of the Sh30.61 billion total income in the fiscal year ended last June. We are concentrating a lot on that diversification, from consultancies, drilling and steam, Mugo said. This year we have already gotten into some contracts for drilling. KenGen will maintain its dividend policy of 30 per cent of net profit or half of the pretax profit subject to investment demands, going forward, Mugo said. This year, it shelved dividend payout for the first time since listing in 2008 in favour of planned 706MW additional capacity by 2020 at an estimated cost of $2 billion (Sh202 billion). The final cost will depend on tendering, but our target is about $1.7 billion and a lot of that has already been raised, KenGen's Finance director John Mudany said. Kenyan has secured $450,000 (Sh45 million) from the African Development Bank for structuring its balance sheet, capacity building and technical support in the next six months. Procurement of a technical adviser has started.