About 23,139 acres in eight counties will be acquired for the development of the behind-schedule Sh2.5 trillion Lamu Port South Sudan-Ethiopia Transport infrastructures, the government has announced.The Kibaki-era project, whose development has been delayed by about four years, will be Kenya's second transport and economic corridor after the northern corridor on completion. The National Land Commission has, in the latest gazette notice, issued a notice to acquire land for the construction of various projects planned along the expansive Lamu corridor. The National Land Commission on behalf of Lapsset Corridor Development Authority gives notice that the government intends to acquire ...the piece of land depicted by and falling within the coordinates traversing .. (the corridor), the commission's chair Muhammad Swazuri says, citing Land Act No 6 of 2012. The corridor will be used to develop infrastructure and associated ancillary facilities. The land to be acquired is in Lamu, Garissa, Laikipia, Meru, Isiolo, Baringo, Turkana and Marsabit counties. Among the projects to be put up in the corridor include Lamu international airport, which will take 2,409 hectares, Lamu resort (470 hectares), Lamu industrial zone and Isiolo international airport (1,477 hectares), and Isiolo resort city which will occupy 5,012 hectares. About Sh10 billion has been allocated to the project in this year's budget, presented to Parliament in June. The mega project also comprises a 32-berth port at Lamu, transport hubs for railway, highways and the international airports in Lamu, Isiolo and Lodwar. It will also have an oil pipeline from the oil-rich Lokichar Basin in South Turkana and a refinery at proposed Lamu port.The construction of the first three berths at the proposed Lamu port has started after the deepening of the docking area for ships by 17.5 metres kicked off a fortnight ago. Dredging has started. A 10,000-tonne class vessel is on site and the dredging will take two years, Transport PS Irungu Nyakera told the Star on October 17. The government has already built Lapsset headquarters at a cost of Sh866 million, and a police station. The NLC, which is acquiring the land on behalf of the government, has invited the concerned persons to inspect the plans at its offices in Ardhi house. With the project, the government seeks to open up Kenya s northern frontier which has been neglected by successive regimes for more trade and investments.