&nbsp; Kathengi Mwambegu, 67, shed tears of joy as he walked out of Shimo la Tewa maximum prison in Mombasa.He was among 631 inmates from 17 prisons in the Coast region who tasted the aura of freedom on Saturday.Mwambegu had spent two years and nine months at the facility after a court sentenced him to three years for murder.The man had been convicted for killing his son-in-law in Kaloleni over a land dispute.He thanked President Uhuru Kenyatta for setting them free during this years&#39; Mashujaa Day celebrations.&quot;He had attacked me with a panga and cut me twice at my home. I took a piece of wood and hit him in the head. Unfortunately he died,&quot; he told the Star.Kathengi Mwambegu ,67, when he secured his release from Shimo La Tewa. With him is coast region prison boss Joseph Mutevesi. /ELKANA JACOBApart from Mwambegu, Albanas Ndolo, 48, said he will not work hard to avoid anything that may force him to be confined within the perimeter wall of a prison.Ndolo was incarcerated on March 28 , 2012 after he was booked for theft of 500 bags of sugar destined for Uganda at the port of Mombasa.&quot;I am not going back to be a loader anymore. I will use my welding skills to make the life of my people better,&quot; Ndolo, who had one more month to serve, said.He said he was a victim of circumstances as the driver of the truck, who escaped, was the one behind the theft at Voi.Ndolo says he knew nothing of the heist until he reached the Athi River weighbridge when the truck weighed much less than at the Mariakani weighbridge.&quot;It is then that the driver took off and we had to wait for another driver from Mombasa to take the cargo to Kampala,&quot; said Ndolo.Albanas Ndolo when he secured his release from Shimo la Tewa prison on Saturday, October 22. /ELKANA JACOB&nbsp;Most of the released prisoners, who shared the sad tales of how they ended up in jail, said they will use the new skills acquired in prison to rebuild their lives.The inmates said they hope their families will take them back as they are reformed. Those released had at most nine months left to serve.Coast region prison commandant Joseph Mutevesi said 34 were women were also set free among the 631 inmates.A chunk of the women served at the Shimo la Tewa maximum prison while four others served at the Malindi prison.&quot;This is a big relief for us. Our institutions were congested. Now we have enough space to accommodate newly convicted felons,&quot; said Mutevesi.Some of the inmates released from Shimo la Tewa prison on Saturday, October 22 following President Uhuru Kenyatta&#39;s pardon on Mashujaa Day. /ELKANA JACOBOn October 20, the president ordered that more than 7,000 petty offenders be released from the jail cells.Uhuru said that the space left by the group would be preserved for senior government officials implicated in corruption.Read: Uhuru frees 7,000 petty offenders to &#39;open space to jail corrupt culprits&#39;&nbsp;