Chief Justice David Maraga has told lawyers that they will be forced to file their cases and petitions electronically effective 2018.He also challenged judges to embrace technology, noting that the current manual filing of cases was one of the reasons for the delay in dispensing justice."We plan that come 2018, lawyers will be forced to file electronically starting with the commercial division," he said.Maraga added that plans were underway for a section of judiciary staff to tour Zambia and Ethiopia for benchmarking.He said that the two countries were selected since they have made huge strides in ICT. The CJ, who was sworn in on October 19, said that the judiciary would be engaging development partners so that could help fund the judges in ICT training."Since the judiciary revenue collection was automated we have seen the amount collected rise from Sh500 million to Sh2.3 billion annually meaning that we have to embrace technology," he said. CJ Maraga also announced plans to hire 20 new judges to be assigned to the lands and environment courts. He admitted that the lands and environmental courts had for years faced an acute shortage of judges, a move that had adversely affected many cases. "There has been an outcry in the land and environmental courts over the few numbers of judges and we are keen to address this by hiring twenty more judges," he said. The CJ made the announcement at the end of the four-day workshop for judges of the High Court held in Great Rift Valley Lodge in Naivasha. He told the judges that he was ready to work with them adding that they were free to seek his support anytime. Read: Prioritise pending corruption cases as you assume office, Uhuru tells CJ Maraga On the 2017 polls, Maraga said that they expected hundreds of petitions and called on the judges to be prepared for the same."In other years, we have been temporarily transferring judges to listen to the petitions. The move affected other cases and we plan to address this problem in the coming elections," he said. On performance, the CJ said that there were complaints from members of the public over the manner some cases were taking before been concluded. "Let us enhance public confidence in the judiciary by dealing with cases as fast as possible and reducing the time used on one case," he said.Read: CJ Maraga pledges to weed out corrupt Judiciary staff