Raila Odinga was quick to attack Jubilee for a "mere internal audit", unproven by the Auditor General, Justin Muturi has said.The Cord leader rubbished investigations into the alleged loss of Sh5 billion at the Health ministry as a cover-up. He said the probe is only meant to hoodwink Kenyans into believing the government is serious in the war against corruption.More on this: Raila rubbishes probe on Sh5 billion health funds loss, says it is cover-upBut Muturi, who is National Assembly Speaker, asked the opposition leader to stop politicising the war against corruption He accused Raila of having double standards, saying he dismissed a similar report when he was Prime Minister. Not too long ago in the Coalition Government, his minister and close ally, Charity Ngilu, was involved in a similar ordeal that led to loss of funds meant for a dam in Machakos," he said."She was Water minister and his two companies were alleged to have been involved in business deals with the Water and Irrigation Development ministry."He noted Raila dismissed the report at the time as it had not been proven by the Auditor General and said Ngilu could not step aside.Muturi, who spoke at a fund raiser at Gitare Primary School on Saturday, further dismissed Raila's call for President Uhuru Kenyatta to resign over the Mafia House scandal. What is good for the goose must also be good for the cuddle. If Raila believed then that it was just an interim report, that could not be used as the basis for the resignation of the then minister, how can you use a similar report to demand the resignation of the President?" he asked.The Speaker also said the opposition chief has been using leaked reports from unreliable sources to make allegations instead of letting relevant institutions do their work independently. Let us have faith in our institutions. We cannot keep demonising everything. That is what began with the IEBC and we went to the streets; we are now complaining that there is no time," he said."It can t be that this institution is bad and can only be good when you are at the helm."Muturi was with Maara MP Kareke Mbiuki and Tharaka Nithi woman representative Beatrice Nkatha, Kajiado's Mary Seneta and Uasin Gishu's Eusilah geny.Mbiuki said it was wrong to conclude that there was graft, based on an interim report following a call for an internal audit by Health Cabinet Secretary Cleopa Mailu. Who said just because you are related to the President you cannot do business with the government? Even when Raila was Prime Minister his late son was doing business with the government," he said.Read: Uhuru sister, cousin were paid Sh200m Health cash[VIDEO] We got Sh41 million health tender legally - Uhuru cousin