Farmers in the North Rift have urged the government to provide them with maize dryers in the cereal depots and waive drying charges. Kenya Farmers Association director Kipkorir Menjo yesterday said those whose maize may not have completely dried by the onset of the short rains will need to dry it to meet the required moisture content. We want the government to open up the drying facilities at the National Cereals and Produce Board for farmers as they are very efficient, he said. The cost of drying a 90kg bag of maize is Sh35.Menjo urged the government to promptly pay farmers so they too can enjoy the fruits of their harvest. We have had instances where farmers have had to wait for almost six months to be paid. We will be meeting with the Agriculture Cabinet Secretary to discuss these issues, he said.The government this week announced it will buy maize from farmers at Sh2,800 per 90kg bag. Kenya National Farmers Union chairman Musa Barno said, Although we had asked for an increase to Sh3,200 per bag, we are happy that the government has responded and given us an extra Sh500 per bag. Menjo said the price increase is welcome as farmers will make some profits, but he accused the government of waiting to be pushed to take action. The government should fund agriculture adequately, he said. CLEAR WAYAgriculture CS Willy Bett, announcing the price increase, said there is enough maize, even as more than 1.3 million people face starvation. He said the country expects to harvest more than 34 million bags this year. A study by the Tegemeo Institute at Egerton University released last week warned of a possible maize shortage by May 2017. The analysis was carried out in the key maize producing counties of Bungoma, Busia, Elgeyo Marakwet, Kakamega, Nakuru, Nandi, Narok, Trans Nzoia, Uasin Gishu and Migori. Barno said, We have plenty of maize which the government should buy at good prices and take to areas where people are starving. The board is also buying wheat at Sh3,000, up from Sh2,800 per bag. Bett will visit NCPB depots in the North Rift to inspect its preparedness to purchase maize from farmers. The board is expected to spend more than Sh8 billion on maize purchase, especially in high-producing areas such as the Uasin Gishu and Trans Nzoia counties.