ENOSH Bolo shakes his head in disapproval. Devolution in Homa Bay county has not taken off, he says emphatically, still shaking his head. Nothing has taken off, even though the county has received over Sh15 billion in the last four years. It s like the county has been issued with a bad devolution cheque. At 43, Bolo, a management consultant, is as pragmatic as politicians come. He is forthright and expresses himself in a no-holds-barred manner, devoid of prevarication, eyes on the ball.In 2013, Bolo was one of those dyed-in-the-wool supporters of Governor Cyprian Awiti. He marshaled his mental, intellectual and financial resources to help shore up Awiti s regime in the hope that it would hasten the pace of devolution.He started an initiative to put in place systems that would help the new county government achieve sustainable development as laid out in the governor s manifesto.He soon realised the governor was not ready to deliver as he was hot on ideas but cold in their implementation .They fell out in 2014, and Bolo declared his intentions to succeed Awiti. I have been on the ground campaigning since 2014. I have sustained the campaign for so long nothing will deter me from becoming the next governor. He says he is the best bet for the county because of his vast managerial capability, youthfulness, humble background and the fact that he is an inspiration to many. A tour of Homa Bay county opens eyes to the missed opportunities brought about by devolution, he saysHe has learnt painfully, though, that devolution is at the mercy of governors who lack the ability to harness the existing potential to lay a firm foundation for the counties to take off.In his view, the national shareable revenue is not enough to transform the 47 counties.What the counties need are governors with both private and public sector orientation and the ability to look for additional funds through a well-managed global fundraising programme.Such governors, he says, should have the capacity develop ideas and pitch them to a global audience for financing.Bolo is promising residents an open-door policy that will offer leadership that is open to challenge; empower women and other vulnerable groups and make prudent use of the county s resources.Once elected, Bolo is promising to audit of development needs.*******1973: Born in Kadongo, in the then South Nyanza District.1981: Started formal education at Kadongo Primary School. Did KCPE in 1988.1989: Homa Bay High School, KCSE class of 1992.1994: Egerton University, graduated with Bachelor of Education degree in 1998.1999: After a brief stint in teaching, Bolo has served as a Board member of the Higher Education Loans Board, Kenya Private Sector Alliance, Sports Kenya and the National Industrial Training Authority. He has also served as a member of the International Labour Organization s Strategy Formulation Committee. Previously, he served as the Deputy Executive Director of FKE, Head of Consulting of the Kenya Institute of Management and the Head of School Improvement Programme in the Republic of the Seychelles.2008: Moi University, graduated with a Master of Business Administration degree in 2009.2014: MCAs are the first line of oversight of county affairs. Yet, attention to their capacity to carry out this critical mandate was not thought through. In Homa Bay county, for example, no MCA has come up with substantive legislation to foster development and most of them have high stakes in the high-level corruption we see today. We need civic education to have MCAs who can legislate, highly empowered MCAs who understand their role. 2016: In seeking the county leadership, I am not motivated by the desire to control the resources. I want an opportunity to make change that impacts on the life of the people so that the county is not left behind. Everything in Homa Bay is bad. We need someone who can turn things around. That person is me; I owe the people the duty of care; I want to serve my people. 