 I have always wanted to live the good life, says Nana Wanjau, the immediate former president of Rotary Club s Nairobi East branch. Although I never lacked anything growing up, I wouldn t say I came from a rich background. I am passionate about helping the less fortunate, but it s important to have balance and ensure you take care of yourself, too. TheRotary Club is an international service organisation with branches in more than 200 countries. Its members volunteer their time and skills to serve their communities and help the less fortunate.Since completing her term as Rotary president in June, Nana has taken up other service projects. She helps ostracised women from Nyanza who reject wife inheritance to rebuild their lives by constructing homes for them.Heart for serviceNana s passion for service was developed at an early age, since her mother was a member of the local Rotary Club chapter while working as a doctor in Zambia. We saw my mother practise the principles of service throughout her life. My mum is Tanzanian and she always hosted migrants for dinner at our home. She was a strong single mother with a big heart. She has passed away, but I ll always remember those early days when our home was like a refugee camp for fellow Tanzanians, who would come for a meal. Nana s mother owned eight clinics in Zambia three private and five nonprofit facilities that were her way of giving back to the poor in society. My mother had a very strong work ethic, so during school holidays, I would be shipped to one of the nonprofit clinics to help out with administrative duties. When you interact with the sick a lot, you are bound to pick something at some point, and I did. My mum was busy at another clinic, so she asked her friend, who owned a private hospital, to pick me up and treat me at her hospital, Nana says.Life-changing conversationNana says the conversation she had with her mother s friend on her way to the hospital changed her outlook on life forever. She just told me out of the blue that my mother would never be rich. And she had this disgusted look on her face as she said it. She said my mother was a good person, but she thought of other people too much at her own expense. Nana says that got her thinking and, as she examined the situation, she realised her mother s friend was right. The prices of the drugs at the five nonprofit clinics were set at cost, but still, many people couldn t afford them. They knew how good my mother was, so there would be long queues at the clinic on Thursdays, because that was the day she stopped by. My mother would always give out free medicine and the clinics would run at a loss. Nana said she made a conscious decision to be charitable but not become a charity case. She said she started wanting more than just an average life. She wanted to enjoy the good life and at the same time help the less fortunate.After graduating from university, Nana moved to Kenya and took up a job in IT. She then met her future husband, from whom she demanded nothing less than the best.No ordinary girlfriend I remember when I had just started working and I had to use public transport. It got to a point I was just fed up of that hustle, so I asked my boyfriend to buy me a car, and guess what? He did. It was one of those Toyota Starlets that were hot back in the day. Everyone could not believe the guy bought me a car in my name and I was just his girlfriend. But I told them I am not just any old girlfriend; I m fabulous, she says.Nana joined the local chapter of the Rotary Club and balanced her volunteering duties with her job. When she got married at 25 and started a family, she decided she wanted to be a stay-at-home mother. I am family-oriented and I just didn t want to have to struggle with juggling work and raising a family. Helping widowsWhen Nana handed over the Rotary presidency this year, she moved on to form her own project, Power Women International, to help widows in Nyanza. Wife inheritance is very real in Nyanza. The situation is very sad. We have built houses for women who were ostracised for refusing to be inherited by their brothers-in-law. There is one woman who was shut out and made to live in a far-flung area with her daughters. The daughters suffer a lot, too, because they are believed to carry the so-called curse that comes with their mothers refusing to be inherited, Nana says.Nana has partnered with the Rona Foundation to help the widows and their daughters rebuild their lives. There was a time I wondered whether what I was doing was enough, but the local pastor called me for a meeting one day and told me how the once-shunned women had rebuilt their lives and were independent and productive members of the society full of confidence. That made me feel good. Executive trainingNana has also formed a branding company, Branding Beyond Borders, which organises executive leadership training workshops. She has organised a training workshop set to take place on November 24, with international speaker Joseph Pine set to headline the summit.She also plans to organise seminars for women in leadership roles. She partnered with another training firm but it didn t work out because they didn t see my vision. I always dream big and sometimes it is hard for people to understand my vision. While some people think local, I think international. Nana plans to organise destination seminars for women leaders. I want the women to get inspired and have a holiday at the same time. The kind of event a woman will have diarised ahead of time and looks forward to every year. My dreams are big, but I live my life with child-like faith. Nana concludes by saying: Dream big and accept nothing but the best for your life.