Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok (pictured) has said he has transformed the county using devolution resources. He said he will seek reelection because he has ensured all residents enjoy the benefits. We have made great strides. Devolution is our second independence, Nanok said on Thursday during the Mashujaa Day celebrations in Moi Gardens, Lodwar town. Governor Nanok listed some of the projects initiated by his administration in the region. We celebrate devolution as second independence to the people of Turkana and all Kenyans, said Nanok. So far he said 413 health workers had been employed to boost health services in the region and noted that construction of the Intensive Care Unit(ICU), High Dependency Unit(HDU) and Doctors housing were going on in Lodwar. As President saying they are ready to face off with Nanok s team. Munyes and Nanok are locked up in what appears to be a two horse race for the seat and the governor who is a member of ODM has claimed that his rivals have hatched a plot to finish him before the polls. Nanok will have to pick a new running mate for the 2017 polls following a bitter fall out with his deputy Peter Ekai who has joined the Munyes camp along with five out six MPs in the region. Munyes who was Ford Kenya Chairman defected to Jubilee last month and has stepped up efforts to take the seat from Nanok. Uhuru will officially receive the defectors while on the tour of Turkana which is planned to take place soon. Nanok will be present to welcome Uhuru same as the jubilee team led by Munyes. The stage is now set for a grueling battle between Cord and Jubilee for the control of politics in the county ahead of the 2017 polls. Nanok said he was ready to battle his rivals as he seeks to defend his seat They will not scare me at all and I am ready for them. The people of Turkana know what we have done and they will not support our opponents , said Nanok. Turkana is the largest county in the country receiving the largest financial allocation of more than Sh 12 Billion annually. Munyes and MPs from the region have accused Nanok and his team of misusing the county resources. Management of the Oil resources and other mineral resources will be among factors that will play a role in determining polls in the region. MPs in the region supporting Munyes include Lomenen, Nicholas Ngikor (Turkana East), Protus Akuja (Loima), Christopher Nakuleu (Turkana North) and Daniel Nanok (Turkana West). President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to inspect oil and road projects in the region. The President looks forward to visiting Lokichar soon to inspect progress necessary for First Oil export, including a road, said State House spokesman Manoah Esipisu when confirming Uhuru s panned visit. Mr Esipisu said the visit culminated from talks between the Ministry of Energy and Petroleum and the Kenya Joint Venture partners consisting of Tullow Oil, Africa Oil and Maersk Oil. The partners confirmed that their companies have approved the Final Investment Decision for the Early Oil Pilot Scheme, said Esipisu.