A lawyer has scolded Kenyans for only coming out to declare their friendship with Afro-fusion and jazz queen Achieng' Abura after her death.Abura died on Thursday at Kenyatta National Hospital in Nairobi, where she was reportedly being treated for depression and gastritis.The shocked public sent many messages of condolence to the family of the singer, also known for her role in the Tusker Project Fame music competition.Some celebrated her life terming her a warrior while others mourned her unexpected death. Others noted her role as a voice coach and a social justice advocate.But lawyer Donald Kipkorir condemned the "hypocrisy" displayed by members of the public and organisations, saying they ignored Abura when she was alive."Achieng' Abura left us. In her death do we see the hypocrisy of Kenyans. Suddenly everyone on social media is claiming they were friends," he said in a Facebook post."Yet in her interview on July 7, she said she had been struggling for over five years in vain to raise money to take her son to England for treatment of his sickle cell anemia. That in one 'successful' fundraiser, less than ten people turned up."The 23-year old was to be flown out of the country for treatment for the disease and a heart condition. He underwent a blood transfusion earlier in the week.Kipkorir further criticised East African Breweries for neglecting the late musician despite her contribution to the show."EA Breweries, with all the billions they make, couldn't give her the meager Sh12 million after she did all the Tusker Fame Projects? And they claim to be good corporate citizens,"he said.The lawyer is well known for flaunting his wealth on social media.Abura will also be remembered for a song titled 'I believe' through which it was claimed she was seeking attention. The song seemingly praises US President Barack Obama.She denied the accusations but said the song was inspired by what Obama stands for in relation to the Kenyan and global situation. More on this: I am no attention-seeker - Achien'g AburaAlso read: MPs don't understand our issues - Achieng AburaAmong those who have mourned Abura's death is music group Sauti Sol which termed it a big blow to the industry.Bitange Ndemo, an associate professor at the University of Nairobi, said she was an "icon" in the creative industry, adding "it was great working with her".Businessman Chris Kirubi said via Twitter: "A music legend she was, empowering &amp; mentoring young musicians. My heartfelt condolences to the family and friends."Dennis Itumbi wrote on the social media platform: "A Legend has left us. Goodbye, Achieng' Abura. You lived well. You laughed truly, you made us dance freely. Rest well."Digital Media Strategist Zawadi Nyong'o said: "Please help us honour Achieng Abura by making sure we get #AHeartForPrince ASAP. That's all she wanted this year."Kenyan leaders have also faced criticism in the past for letting key contributors live in squalor and only rewarding them posthumously.President Uhuru Kenyatta, DP William Ruto, Cord leader Raila Odinga and other leaders are yet to condole with Abura's family.