Corazon Aquino stepped up to fill the gap left by Neddy Atieno as Kenya s Harambee Starlets beat Egypt 1-0 in their international friendly match staged at the Safaricom Stadium Kasarani yesterday.Aquino notched the winner in the 35th minute as Atieno prepared to join the Armed Forces in November. Kenyans thus redeemed their image since the last time the two sides met in Nairobi, Egypt pipping the Kenyans by the same margin.The tempo was fast from the start with Christine Nafula teasing Egypt s keeper Engy Ahmed in the fifth minute. This was followed by fruitless attacks by the north Africans. The Starlets finally made the breakbrough in the 35th when Aquino netted from the second corner of the game after missing two chances.A determined Harambee Starlets kept the pressure on in the second half, cranking up the pressure in the Egyptian final third but to no avail. Captain Mary Kinuthia, Esse Akida and Lilian Adera added more goal threats for the home team but missed their chances in the 68th, 77th and 84th minutes.Coach David Ouma was contented with the result and praised his charges for filling in Atieno s place. Atieno will be missed in the team, but I am happy that my player are learn from each other, that in today s match, play flowed very well. The results are encouraging and I am confident that if we remain consistent, we will stage an impressive face-off against Ghana next month, observed Ouma.Egypt s coach, Mohamed Mostafa praised both teams saying: Both teams have played very well and have a better footing ahead of the Cup of Nations, Meanwhile Ulinzi Stars Kenyan Premier League top scorer John Mark Makwatta is hopeful he will feature for Harambee Stars in upcoming friendly matches against Mozambique and Liberia.The ace has only featured once for the Stars; against Uganda Cranes and is in the provisional squad named by coach Stanley Okumbi ahead of the November friendly matches.Speaking on his ambition at the national team, Makwatta promised that he will work all his heart out in a bid to get a slot in the final cut with an aim of helping Okumbi s team in the 2016 Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup as well. I have been working hard in training and when I go to camp. Even now as we head back for the two friendly matches, I will still keep on working hard added Makwatta I am hopeful of getting more playing time to show what I have to offer for my national team. There is the Cecafa coming up as well. It is my hope to play a role in seeing Kenya retain the title, he told the club s official web-portal.Makwatta is one of the three local strikers in Okumbi s provisional squad awaiting foreign legion. The others Posta Rangers Calvin Odongo and Tusker s Allan Wanga.