The plot to remove Auditor General Edward Ouko on trumped up charges merely because he irritates President Uhuru Kenyatta on the Eurobond saga is in bad taste, a step back in the anti-corruption war. Kenya s Chief Executive has to be extremely patient with irritants. It is therefore unnecessary for his men to go hunting for Ouko, courtesy of the Ethics and Ant-Corruption Commission.To even call Ouko an irritant is to play mischief and set him up to be hounded by busybodies in the government. There is a strain in the high echelons of Jubilee that the Auditor General represents the last vestiges of the Grand Coalition Government. And it must leave. The belief is that the Nairobi School alumni has been feeding the opposition with corruption dossiers from the government s secret registries.I don t mention the President s involvement in vain. Those in his inner-circle might eagerly want Ouko out, following Uhuru s contemptuous mocking of the man during the Anti-corruption Summit at State House, Nairobi. They may think they re helping the President or making him comfortable. Things could become even murkier if some take Uhuru s off-colour remarks when launching the second phase of the mysterious SGR railway as a shoot and kill order. I know those offices are independent. I have no powers to sack them. Indeed, you do have a secret weapon on how we can have them removed if they don t do their work. The public write a petition to me and I ll immediately form a tribunal. If it is proved they haven t done their work, they will be out, the President said. On the face of it, this was an innocent statement of a legal fact. But wait! The umbrage wasn t directed at Ouko per se though the compound reference to the commissions shouldn t be ignored. Rather, Uhuru seems particularly irked by the EACC s List of Shame of names of supposed looters in his government that he led in Parliament and they have not produced substantive evidence two years since. He is not happy about the great political cost that came with the EACC s incompetence.However, it would be insincere to assume the President s tirade wasn t informed by insinuations that the anti-corruption agencies are protection rings for the corrupt. The rigmarole at State House told it all: The anti-corruption war is being undermined by the very guards stationed to protect Kenya s family silver.That s why I find the President s consternation at Ouko getting information from the US Federal Reserve Bank flabbergasting. It isn t that the the FRB is a too holy ground to send our CEO into fits of shocked humour. Ouko merely wants to cleanse the President over the alleged missing Eurobond billions. It s clear Ouko is a victim of turf wars within the anti-corruption agencies which want to spite his office because it has remained the only credible institution that religiously rubs thieves in the government up the wrong way. If there is any commitment to eradicate graft, then Ouko is the partner the President needs rather than one to be derided and hounded out of office.An even more convincing theory on why Ouko is targeted is because elections are near and some public officers want to make quick billions to fund the campaigns. A pliant Auditor General will not haunt them while ensconced in office next year. If the President is committed to ending corruption, there is no better partner than Ouko. Communications, Publications and Conflict Management Specialist, University of Nairobi