On Sunday October 23, news broke that Peter Kenneth had decided to support Uhuru Kenyatta s bid to retain the Presidency next year, and that he would himself seek the Governorship of an unnamed county (likely to be one of Murang a, Nairobi, or Nakuru) on the Jubilee ticket.First of all, I don't agree with the principle of the move. Kenneth s support for Jubilee flies in the face of what he stood for in 2013. I note that he was careful to say that he stands for the same things as he did in 2013; he appears to be alive to the fact that he has contradicted himself by supporting a government that he himself has said is corrupt.That said, Peter Kenneth tried idealism and tried trusting the electorate (the majority of the vote is now held by the youth, the Facebook generation are not like their parents, etc etc). Where did it get him? 70,000 votes out of 12,000,000 not even best of the rest. As Mutiga Murithi said, elections in Kenya are simply a census. If you run as an independent, people from both sides of the political divide will call you a spoiler for their main candidate, and then proceed to queue up behind that candidate invariably a tribal kingpin. If you support one side, as Mr Kenneth has now done for pragmatism s sake, you immediately lose the support of the other side, and they call you a tribalist. The fact of the matter indeed the lesson of the 2013 presidential election is that if Peter Kenneth ever becomes President, he will be voted in as a Kikuyu, not as "a progressive politician" or "a good steward of public funds" or "an excellent public administrator". These things tend to be irrelevant in Kenyan politics. We Kenyans don't want development, what we want is tribe. Even if someone brings development, that development is merely used to buttress the tribe argument.Further, we know that the Kikuyu have never voted for a non-Kikuyu since the advent of multiparty politics in 1992. The current Deputy President will not change that. The issue then becomes who will be the presumptive Kikuyu candidate in 2022. This is what Kenneth is angling for. As I said at the start I don't agree with the principle of it (having to support Jubilee), but I think politics is all about the end justifying the means (a major reason why politics is dirty). As a strategic move, therefore, Peter Kenneth's move appears to be the right one.As to whether Peter Kenneth is fit to lead, I wrote about that years ago; my views remain the same. He is one of the most effective leaders the nation has produced in the recent past. On multiple occasions he won awards for his stewardship of the Constituency Development Fund. More importantly, his leadership of the constituency was felt by the common mwananchi. Which county will Mr Kenneth seek to govern? The people of Murang a county are clamouring for his leadership (despite rejecting him in the 2013 Presidential election). However if he is seeking a national platform from which to launch his bid for the Presidency, he will run for governor either in Nairobi or Nakuru. The fact that his announcement was made in Eastleigh, with at least two MCAs in tow, is instructive of his awareness that only Nairobi, and to a lesser extent, Nakuru, offer a national platform for him to run on, because they are the more cosmopolitan counties among his three options. It is very difficult for a Governor to run a county when his party has a minority in the County Assembly (another argument against running as an independent candidate). Another obstacle with effectively governing a County (as Dr Kivutha Kibwana can well attest) is reigning in greedy Members of the County Assembly (MCAs). They insist upon travel budgets having to be inflated, or the Governor s budget will not pass. A Jubilee majority in the County Assembly is more easily attainable in Nakuru. However the Nairobi County offers the best platform for Mr Kenneth to launch his bid for the Presidency in 2022, as Evans Kidero, who himself appears to have aspirations for the Presidency, well knows. The choice is likely to come down to these two counties.Peter Obi, the former Governor of Anambra State in Nigeria, tried to provide the kind of leadership Kenneth espouses, and was impeached. He fought his impeachment in court, won, and has received wide acclaim for the quality of his leadership in Anambra. Change can be delivered from within. Peter Kenneth has abandoned idealism for pragmatism. It is a move that has hurt his most ardent supporters, but it is likely this approach will serve him better than the previous one.