Transport PS Irungu Nyakera has said there are no issues with the recently launched standard gauge railway tunnel in Ngong.Speaking yesterday, he said all the seven options explored had proposed that the SGR pass through Ngong and the only controversy was over its passage through the Nairobi National Park. The eight-kilometre Ngong tunnel will be constructed for Sh1.5 billion. Kenya Railways MD Atanus Maina yesterday said the cost through the Rift Valley is expensive due to the rugged terrain.The launch signifies phase 2A of the project from Nairobi to Naivasha. Phase one was from Mombasa to Nairobi.He said the launch does not necessarily mean the project has to start immediately, but it is a way to inform the country the direction the government intends to take. It was the best decision economically and environmentally, Maina said. He said the route bisecting the park will be built in three phases to reduce adverse impact. We will build the bridge through the park in 18 months. Restoration wil be done after every phase, he said.Maina said the area earmarked will be fenced off to avoid interrupting wildlife. He said Kenya Wildlife Service scientists and rangers will work closely with constructors to ensure to protect wildlife.Maina said several issues were considered before the park option was chosen. He said they included the value of property to be compensated, impact of displacement on both personal property and businesses and the cost of rerouting.Maina said excavation through the park was not a viable option. He said noise reflectors will be constructed along the bridge as one of the mitigation measures.Maina said once the environmental impact assessment report reaches his office, the National Land Commission will evaluate the amount of money needed for compensation.He allayed fears that the project will destroy the park, saying the government will elevate the part cutting through the park.Maina said the government will use Sh50 billion, an indication it cares about biodiversity.On the suit filed in court, he said they are ready to convince the court on why they decided to have the line slice the park.