Today, more than ever before, Kenya and all developing countries need the global climate change deliberations to succeed. Recent impacts of climate change around the world are indeed indications that we are increasingly running out of time to prevent the worst effects of rising global temperatures. The world needs bold people to take action and compel political leaders to reverse global trends in favor of saving the planet from current and future threats. For a country like Kenya, reducing the damaging effects of climate change is particularly crucial in saving coral reefs at the coast that are currently being affected hence resulting in a dramatic reduction in tourism, negatively impacting on local livelihoods. Additionally, warming of the climate is blamed for the resurgence of malaria causing mosquitoes in previously malaria-free regions. For decades the fossil fuel industry and other polluting industries have stalled progress on how climate change effects can be reduced through the adoption of binding policy guidelines. Their influence has resulted in profit-friendly, voluntary initiatives at the expense of other approaches that would require significant changes in how these corporations operate. As we approach coming COP 22 in Marrakesh, Morocco, it is clear that innovative solutions that will dramatically cut Greenhouse Gas Emissions cannot be adopted if the world s largest polluters continue to have a seat at the policy-making table.During last year s COP 21 meeting in Paris, France, interference from the industrial countries was a central concern. To ensure that member countries take action far beyond the Paris Agreement, those bent at stalling the discussions ought to be left out. The reason for this is that, we have seen damage done through the interference from the industrial countries through their aggressive lobbying at the regional levels to financial contribution at international meetings.The agenda-setting role of the industrialized countries at the treaty meetings is a primary obstacle to inclusive progress. And during some Conference of the Parties (COPs), corporate entities with a direct conflict of interest in the treaty s success not only sponsor the talks, but are given preferential access to delegates. The UNFCCC meetings in Marrakech, Morocco next month must be shielded from the influential carbon emitters. There has to be a more just and sustainable energy system and policymakers must act to end the undue influence and obstruction of climate deliberations by polluting states. Many experts believe the Paris Agreement swings the door wide open to interference from industries largely responsible for global warming. If we are to keep global warming below 1.5 degrees, we must first ensure big oil and its dirty drilling friends are not involved in drafting the rules.Yet, the Treaty has no policy to addressing such conflicts of interest, leaving the entire process vulnerable to the lobbying might of fossil fuel interest groups leading to inevitable rise in global temperatures.Most developing countries have noticed this. For the first time in UNFCCC history, countries representing more than 60 percent of the world s population banded together in support of a policy to address conflicts of interest that will result in unabated global warming.Willice Onyango is an international youth leader willice.okoth@gmail.com