 Here's something you may find interesting the brief email read, barely 10 days ago. Cue clicking the attachment to the email and voila! Here, handwritten in an almost child s scrawl was the badly misspelt lineup of the Harambee Stars team that played in and won the finals of East and Central Challenge Cup on 12/11/83. 33 years have elapsed and these dudes still cause tear-jerking. My heroes! My shujaas! Mashujaa! It has been the most successful Kenyan football team ever with its crowning glory being the capture of the East and Central Senior Challenge Cup during 1981-1983; hence permanently bringing it home. Its two main feeder clubs were also regional titans. AFC Leopards scooped the East and Central Club championship in 1979, 1982, 1983 and 1984. Gor Mahia, legendary rivals to AFC Leopards, also nabbed the regional diadem; in 1980 but most notably in 1985 when William Obwaka s two goals in Khartoum downed Leopards. But Gor went one more: they became the first club in East and Central Africa to win a continental trophy when they won the Africa Cup Winners Cup in 1987. And in 1987, Harambee Stars came a commendable second in the All Africa Games desperately losing 1-0 to a formidable Egypt side (the Pharaohs) that, together with Cameroon (the Indomitable Lions) and Nigeria (the Super Eagles), bestrode African football like a colossus. In the second game of that tournament, they had drawn 3-3 with the Indomitable Lions, several of whose members would just 3 years later shock World Cup champions Argentina in the opening game of Italia 1990; like Benjamin Massing, Jean Claude Pagal, Cyrille Makanaky, Andre Kana Biyik, Jacque Songoo, Charles Ntamark and Bertin Ebwelle. Their captain Theophile Abega, before the game against Harambee Stars, had reckoned, Kenya have a long way to go in football. This band of Kenyan gladiators had it all: fearless, united, indomitable, skilled, resilient and tenacious. They made us truly proud. They were proud. A particularly fond memory of them derives from a moment of deep adversity. This was during their perilous defense of the East and Central Challenge Cup in Kampala s Nakivubo Stadium against hosts Uganda Cranes in 1982. This was a Cranes side spotting warriors who had actually reached the finals of the 1978 African football championship. That day in Nakivubo, our gladiators would battle footballing giants such as Jimmy Kirunda, John Latigo, Issa Ssekatawa, Obadia Ssemakula, Davis Black Bomber Kamoga and Godfrey Kateregga. And battle we did! Harambee Stars, the away side, were clearly on the defense for most of that game. In those days, live television coverage was as a rarity. Hence, the near-shrill, high-pitched voice of legendary broadcaster Leonard Mambo Mbotela was the main source of commentary. At some moment, his voice rises to a crescendo Willberforce Mulamba, Wilberforce Mulamba, Wilberforce Mulamba goaaaal! Another journalistic legend Roy Gachuhi, who actually attended this great game, narrates: It was an epic duel pitting defense and attack. The faith the Kenyans had in themselves against any forward line was aptly captured in a remark my friend and colleague, Hos Maina overheard Josephat Murila, Kenya s outstanding sweeper, make during the successful campaign in Dar es Salaam the previous year. According to Hos, Murila told the forwards: You guys, just score one goal and leave the rest to us. In Nakivubo, the forwards did just that, with the powerfully-built midfielder, Wilberforce Mulamba, dribbling all the way from the center to rifle in a spectacular goal. Uganda responded immediately with massive pressure. At one point, Bobby Ogolla, the Kenya stopper, suffered a cut over his brow that needed four stitches. He played with a bandage and the wound kept on needing attention. Matters came to a head when the Malawian referee, Billie Pambala, mysteriously awarded the Ugandans a goal which only he seemed to have seen cross the line.Kenya hotly contested this goal; even threatening to walk out before a combined force of, among others, Culture and Sports Minister Paul Ngei, coach Marshall Mulwa and team manager Apollo Ndenda convinced them to play on.And Uganda mercilessly attacked, incentivized as Gachuhi would reveal, by a gnawing and growing fear of a looming penalty shoot-out: The Ugandans had a powerful motivation to win the game within regulation time: Mahmoud Abbas, the Harambee Stars goalkeeper and captain. Over time, he had built himself a formidable reputation for saving penalties. The Cranes knew that if the game came to this, they would be walking in the shadow of death. And to compound this doomsday prospect, Kenya s own penalty takers, Wilberforce Mulamba, Nahashon Mahila, Jacaranda Ouma, Ambrose Ayoyi and Jared Ingutia, were of above average quality. So the Ugandans attacked. However, they could not score, and as Gachuhi reminisces: The match went into penalties. And as sure as day follows night, the worst fears of the Cranes and their country came to pass. Abbas saved three penalties and Kenya won the Challenge Cup for an unprecedented fourth time and a 15-year record [of the Cranes never losing a final at home in the history of the East and Central Africa Challenge Cup] was broken. Marshall Mulwa, still the Harambee Stars all-time most successful coach is worth due and generous recognition. One commentator notes: In two of those tournaments, Kenya beat the host team in the finals. Those who played under Mulwa say he was not much of a tactician but his biggest strength was his motivational skills. He could literally get players to run through brick walls for their country. Mulwa also made it a point to select players from as many teams as possible and made it a point to select players from a wide variety of ethnic backgrounds. He did not want the national team to be dominated by 2 or 3 ethnic groups. Kenyan heroes continue to be born to this day. A great future beckons if only every Kenyan were to get an equal opportunity to nurture their talent or passion. A clear vision and root-trunk-branch re-engineering of our national systems and processes is imperative to ensure that this happens is , however, imperative. This great team of Kenyan footballing heroes manifestly showed us that it can be really be done.Ngure wa Gachanja is a human rights and democratic governance practitioner. The views expressed in this column are entirely his own and in no way represent or articulate those of any organizations he may be associated with