OPPOSITION chief Raila Odinga s Kikao Forum seems to be giving Jubilee technocrats sleepless nights. The forum provides a platform for the former Prime Minister to directly engage voters in his strongholds and respond to propaganda against him from critics. The Star reported that the NIS have been closely monitoring the forum but Corridors of Power can confirm the ruling Jubilee Party is struggling to come up with its own forum to counter Kikao. **** Corridors of Power wonders why Deputy President William Ruto has not visited South Rift Valley, despite sections of media describing him as the Rift s political kingpin. South is dominated by the Maa community. It was a surprise that the DP did not even attend the new Geothermal Development Company MD Johnson ole Nchoe s welcome party and former Heritage minister and Maasai defender William ole Ntimama s burial, among other events. President Uhuru Kenyatta seems focused independently on consolidating the Maa vote. It became clear he was directly involved in local politics when on Friday August 12 he reconciled Governor Samuel Tunai and Senator Stephen ole Ntutu in Narok to stop divisive, hate-driven politics against each other. **** A political broker from Central is at it again. The tycoon, known for a flashy lifestyle and operating within the corridors of power along Harambee Avenue, was humiliated last week when his visitors to the Presidency were snubbed. Top officials at the Office of the President shoved aside three men of Asian origin who accompanied the businessman with the aim of booking an appointment with the President. It is understood that the President s handlers were unhappy that previously the flamboyant tycoon had bypassed them to seek audience with the President, especially at public gatherings, and were out to show him they were in charge. The wheelerdealer is said to be collecting money from businesspeople, especially potential foreign investors, with the promise of securing appointments with the Presidency for favours in contracts. Last year, he was lambasted by a top State House official for maligning the name of the OP - but the chap appears not learn from the past. **** A senator who is also an aspiring governor for a county in Nyanza has reportedly been compiling a corruption dossier against the incumbent, with the aim of denting his image once he unleashes it ahead of next year s general election. The senator, who has been sending corruption write-ups to the newsrooms targeting the governor without annexing evidence, is unhappy for not receiving the coverage he wants.