He is suave, urbane and a stickler for punctuality. Jonathan Mueke is the man who deputises Nairobi Governor Evan Kidero.&ldquo;We are definitely running together again next year,&rdquo; Mueke told this writer in his office last week.Unlike in other counties where governors and their deputies don't see eye-to-eye, things are different in Nairobi county.It is not hard to miss why the duo have worked without friction since their election in 2013.The 39-year-old politician shares the secret to their cordial relationship: &ldquo;Constant communication is central between myself and the Governor.&rdquo;Mueke adds that the ability to look at the big picture has seen them avoid problems that could otherwise attract friction. &ldquo;Nairobi is not only the capital city of Kenya, it is also the economic hub of the region. All communities live here. If we can't hold Nairobi together, we will have failed as leaders.&rdquo;Kidero and Mueke's 2017 campaign is dubbed &ldquo;Kidero-Mueke 2017&rdquo;.Mueke argues that they deserve another term in office because they have worked hard on delivering on their campaign promises.&ldquo;Our hard work has helped place Nairobi on the global map,&rdquo; the father of two says.Nairobi was recently ranked Number 11 by the City Millennium Index, thanks to its investor-friendly by-laws.&ldquo;Nairobi has now overtaken major cities like Johannesburg, Lagos and Cairo to be at the top of the league.&rdquo;He reiterates that Nairobi is the Number One destination in Foreign Direct Investment, thanks to their leadership.&ldquo;Nairobi has moved from position 139, since we came in in 2013, to position 109 in the World Bank ratings on cities that are business-friendly.&rdquo;He adds that the city currently stands at position 125 in the Global City Livability Index. It previously stood at 139.Mueke is appealing to Nairobi residents to vote for him and Kidero next year, so that they can complete the projects they have initiated.&ldquo;We have key projects that need continuity,&rdquo; he said.The Wiper Party politician says one of the flagship projects are the Urban Renewal Programme, in which they plan to build 14,000 new housing units in seven new estates in the city.&ldquo;The groundbreaking ceremony for this mega project is slated for November. These are houses for low-income people.&rdquo;They also plan to put up complex single dedicated bus lanes in nine road corridors to decongest the city.Mueke argues that when they took over, there was no Master Plan.&ldquo;We put up the first integrated Master Plan.&rdquo;They promise to up two fire stations in the Kangemi and Jogoo Road markets.In Five Minutes:1977: Born in Nairobi.1983: Joins Kilimani Primary School, where he did his KCPE in 1990.1991: Nairobi School, KCSE 1994.1996: Wayne State University, graduated with a degree in Bachelor of Science in Computer Science in 2006.2004: Auckland University, MBA.2007: Contested the Westlands parliamentary seat, but lost.2013: Elected Deputy Governor Nairobi.Quotes:2007: &ldquo;I was born here. I grew up in Westlands for the first 18 years of my life. It is true that there are places that I haven&rsquo;t been to for 15 or so years, but every time I go there now, it is as though I have always been there. I still have an instinct for these places. And as far as the slums go, I will admit that they aren&rsquo;t the kind of environment I grew up in, but, as always with the human condition, one can empathise &hellip; one can listen and learn. A good leader can recognise the challenges of his people and see how to work with them towards useful solutions.&rdquo;2016: &ldquo;I have never given Evans Kidero a reason not to have me as his deputy as we have no friction since we work together. The question of appearing together in public with Kidero is a non-issue, since there is an equal division of tasks between the two of us. I am not power-hungry and I cannot engage in a fight with my boss.&rdquo;2016: "We wanted to tell Kalonzo Musyoka that we must remain united. We must field a single candidate in every elective zone. We are seeking his support in ensuring the unity of the coalition remains."