The pressure at the top of the table is starting to crank up as Tusker and Gor Mahia seek the psychological advantage to win the race for the 2016 SportPesa Premier league title.Tusker coach Paul Nkata has made the bold declaration that he will guide his team to the title and achieve an enviable double this season.Nkata said everything is working out well for the brewers, who head the league table going into the final three rounds of matches, and he was looking forward to winning his first Kenyan league title.This is despite Tusker stumbling over the weekend with an unexpected 1-1 draw with relegation battling City Stars while their closest rivals Gor Mahia beating AFC Leopards 2-0 to move to within four points of the league leaders.The Ugandan has already tasted success this season after he led Tusker to the 2016 GOtv Shield title following a 1-0 victory over Ulinzi Stars in the final last Thursday. In fact, this was Tusker s first domestic Cup success since 1993 when they last won the competition, then known as Moi Golden Cup. This is our year. We are done with the GOtv Shield. We are now in a good position to win the league title and that is where all my focus now lies, Nkata said as the brewers look to recapture the Kenyan championship they last won in 2012, said Nkata on the KPL official portal I am not saying that it will be easy. It will be difficult and I expect a lot of resistance and especially from Gor Mahia. I am, however, very confident that we shall win a second trophy at the end of the season. This is not just my ambition; it is also the ambition of my players. They are all very determined to win that silverware and I have told them that they can do it only if they remain focused, added the Ugandan tacticianNkata pointed out further that everyone in the Tusker establishment is making every effort to ensure the team is comfortable and motivated and there is no reason why the brewers shouldn t win the league title.The brewers face three tough last outings in their quest for the 2016 diadem, away to Sony Sugar, at home to AFC Leopards before potentially, a title deciding grand finale clash against hosts Gor Mahia. They will be heading to Awendo today for the crunch clash with a vastly improved Sony side, who are expected to enjoy massive support from the additional fans who will be pushing them on to dent the brewers title hopes.