As an urban area that hosted Operation Lifeline Sudan, Lokichogio town was robust and busy. Organisations competed in providing life support assistance to refugees fleeing civil unrest. OLS is an Integrated humanitarian support mission that comprised United Nations agencies and close to 65 other aid organisations.Hundreds of Sudanese, tired and hungry and in most cases wounded after falling victim to the deadly conflict. streamed into the Reception Centre located in the town and built by the United Nations Refugee Agency. They would later be transferred for surgical treatment in the fully equipped medical facilities set up by the International Committee of the Red Cross and Red Crescent, located a couple kilometers away from the UNHCR Reception Centre.The town s airport received regular commercial and humanitarian flights airlifting experts and aid workers into and out of the town. The UN, as well as the aid organisations, constructed massive office and residential premises from where workers provided much-needed services and later accommodation. The well-paid international and locally recruited humanitarian and aid workers had to part with a fortune to get goods and services from the local community. This made the town s commercial enterprises reap massively from the resulting cash flow.The local food and entertainment joints, including bars and restaurants, expanded their infrastructure and capacity to accommodate a continuously increasing clientele. One major hotel had a massive swimming pool! The dollar was the currency used for doing business in the small town and all sorts of commerce, including the world s oldest known, continued reaping big! Human and vehicular traffic snarl-ups were the norm in Lokichogio as trucks loaded with food aid and field vehicles ferrying aid workers from one place to the other jammed the street amidst the ongoing refugee influx. Due to the heavy traffic flow, roads were tarmacked and well maintained to ensure smooth flow within the town and into the airport. In summary, Loki, as it is popularly known, was enjoying a full boom, thanks to the civil unrest in Sudan and later South Sudan.Fast forward to, the Comprehensive Peace Agreement was signed between the two warring factions, leading to a ceasefire. With peace returning inside the Sudan, OLS had to move its operations inside the Sudan forcing the over 65 aid agencies and the UN to relocate from Loki. One repercussion of the relocation was that offices and accommodation were vacated. The frequent flights arriving and departing Loki scaled down and, to date, the airport has remained deserted, with only chartered flights landing. The trucks that ferried food aid and the field vehicles that carried humanitarian aid workers became history. Peace had returned to Sudan, albeit for short while, and the enterprises began feeling the pinch since the refugee influx into Loki declined. The dollar was no longer circulating as it had and trade plummeted, causing the bars and restaurants to close shop. Most locally recruited staff lost their jobs and the economy suffered hugely. Loki became a ghost town. However, despite the hardships, residents are trying to survive the harsh changes. Lesson: It is important to develop settlements in a sustainable manner.Jery Ougo is a Makerere University-trained Urban Planner and Assistant Registrar of the Kenya Institute of Planners.