Wiper and ODM are equal partners in Kisii and Nyamira and will battle it out for Cord nominations, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has said.He spoke on Monday when he concluded a two-day tour of the two counties. Kalonzo said Wiper aspirants will face ODM hopefuls in the Cord primaries ahead of the next election. ODM and Wiper are now equals in the Kisii and Nyamira counties. Aspirants from the two coalition partners should battle it out in nominations so that we get strong Cord candidates. That is what we envisage in our arrangement, he added. I have a very strong team and we shall allow the people of Kisii to exercise their democratic right in nominating their preferred candidate. The nominations will be tough but that is the beauty of democracy. Kalonzo said the coalition will conduct free and fair nominations.However, the announcement may not go down well with ODM which sees Kisii as its stronghold. Kalonzo s party has only one elected MP in the region Borabu s Ben Momanyi.Kalonzo welcomed lawyer Lumumba Nyaberi, who defected from Jubilee, and wants to run for Kisii governor. Nyaberi ran for governor in 2013 and lost.The Wiper leader appeared to criticise Governor James Ongwae, saying Kisii needs a serious leader . When you fly over Kisii it looks like a big slum. We need a serious leader who can plan and put in place polices on how to use land and that leader is Nyaberi, an advocate who has served this country for more than 25 years, Kalonzo said. I m leaving Kisii a happy man. Unlike in 2007 when you disappointed me, this time round I m confident you will stand with me and elect Wiper candidates. Woman representative hopeful Ann Masenge and South Mugirango aspirant Ezekiel Okeng o have ditched Jubilee for Wiper.In Nyamira, Kalonzo said retired judge David Onyancha and Tom Otuto will contest for the Cord ticket with ODM s Governor John Nyagarama, West Mugirango MP James Gesami, Deputy Governor Amos Nyaribo and John Kumenda.In Kitutu Masaba, Victor Swanya will face off with Cord leader Raila Odinga s point man in the region Timothy Bosire. They faced off in the last election, but Bosire emerged victorious.In West Mugirango, advocate and political analyst Steve Mogaka dismissed reports that he had moved to Jubilee and said he is still in Wiper.