After Olympic success, world women s steeplechase record holder Ruth Jebet of Bahrain is targeting her maiden cross country title in March next year in Kampala. My next focus in my career is to run at the world cross country next year. With God s favour and training, I hope I will do well, Jebet said.With a steeplechase world record and impressive season performances, Bahrain s Ruth Jebet is optimistic the world will ascend her to the World Athlete of the Year throne.The 19-year-old Kenyan-born athlete, who competes for Bahrain is among the list of 10 female athletes nominated for the IAAF award. I was very excited when I heard the news that I had been nominated for the award. I never expected that and it is my prayer that God fulfils what he has started, Jebet said.According to her, making the cut into the list of nominees for the top award was a reflection of her super season with good performance. I think it s all about my achievements on the track this season. I am asking the world to vote for me, she added. Jebet set a new world steeplechase record 8:52.78 at the Paris Diamond League in August, slashing off more than six seconds. This was after she missed it narrowly at the Rio Olympic Games when she won gold in 3000m SC.Apart from the Olympic success and a record, Jebet was impressive in the IAAF Diamond League season, upstaging world champion Kenya s Hyvin Kiyeng for the top honours.Jebet was a graduate of the Kenya Secondary School Sports Association (KSSSA) games before switching her allegiance to Bahrain in 2013. It is at the same year that she won 3000m steeplechase gold during the Asian Championships and went on to snatch victory in her speciality at the 2014 World Junior Championships in Oregon.The IAAF is set to announce the top male and female athletes during the gala set for December 2 in Monaco. Jebet is in the list alongside Almaz Ayana, Ruth Beitia, Vivian Cheruiyot, Kendra Harrison, Caterine Ibarguen, Sandra Perkovic, Caster Semenya, Elaine Thompson and Anita Wlodarczyk.Elsewhere, double world and Olympic champion Mo Farah has confirmed that his race at the M ller Anniversary Games on July 9, 2017 will be his last at the IAAF Diamond League fixture in the British capital. 2017 will probably be my last year competing on the track so I m really looking forward to running in front of my home fans in London, said Farah, who successfully defended both his 5000m and 10,000m Olympic titles at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games. It will be a very important competition for me in the build up to the world championships so hopefully I can run well and put on a great show for the fans. The most decorated British athlete of all time produced his first double Olympic gold at the London Stadium in 2012 and most recently set this season s world leading 5000m performance at the meeting s 2016 edition, clocking 12:59.29. The Olympic Stadium holds great memories for me and with the World Championships returning next year it will be great to run there in July at the Anniversary Games. With his heroics in Rio last August, Farah became only the second man to win the 5000m and 10,000m Olympic double double . He s also won both events at the last two editions of the world championships, adding an even stronger focus to the distance programmes at both the M ller Anniversary Games and IAAF World Championships London 2017.