Cameroon&rsquo;s Indomitable Lionesses head coach Enow Ngachu has tipped the national women&rsquo;s football team, Harambee Starlets to perform well in the forthcoming African women&rsquo;s Cup of Nations (AWCON) final set for Cameroon.Speaking in post match interview on Saturday after Cameroon won 1-0 against the Starlets in an International friendly match at the Safaricom Stadium, Kasarani, the tactician said the team was a worthy opponent and had the potential do well in the AWCONThe tactician at the same time observed both teams&mdash;Kenya and Cameroon&mdash;have a chance to grow and improve prior to the event.&ldquo;They are a good side. It goes without saying that the Kenya team has and continue to have good preparation ahead of the event and I think they have what it takes to progress past the group stage,&rdquo; said Ngachu. He added: &ldquo;Really, it&rsquo;s not about the win, but match&rsquo;s evaluation. We wanted to gauge our physical aspect and the tactic part of the our game and therefore we can only get better,&rdquo;The tactician said: &ldquo;Cameroon finished third in 2012, emerged as finalists in 2014 and I think being the hosts in 2016, it&rsquo;s about that time we win the title. We are at our peak now and I hope everything falls in place for us so that we emerge the winners.&rdquo;Starlets coach David Ouma, said the players staged a good performance but was quick to note the side will have to learn to utilise chances that come their way. He said: &ldquo;For instance, we had four open chances in the opening 12 minutes of play but we were wasteful. But if the results against Cameroon is anything to go by, then we are slowly but surely closing in on Africa powerhouses like Cameroon and Nigeria. We are set to play Egypt on October 28 and with these top notch friendlies lined up, we hope they will help players confidence in the AWCON show.&rdquo;Experienced national team defender Wendy Achieng said: &ldquo;For us this is learning curve for us and the result doesn&rsquo;t matter. We intend to pick positives going into the AWCON and stage a good performance.&rdquo;Christine Maine&rsquo;s penalty in the second half was all the Lionesses needed to record their second win of their ongoing friendly matches. The Lionesses had in fortnight ago won against Mali 1-0 in a two-legged match and are scheduled to host Starlets on November 5 in the Limbe City. Kenya have been drawn in Pool &lsquo;B&rsquo; alongside title holders Nigeria, Ghana and Mali.