Drama unfolded on Thursday in Wajir during Mashujaa Day celebration after MPs walked out of Governor Ahmed Abdullahi as he delivered his speech.Aden Keynan (Eldas), Mohamed Elmi (Tarbaj) and Senator Abdirahman Hassan have had an apparent fallout ahead of the 2017 polls.The legislators have sharply fallen out with the Governor, accusing him of lack accountability and arrogance in the management of county affairs.It was not clear why the legislators chose to walk out, but observers say, it was a well-planned to send a message that it is not business as usual with the Governor as he seeks to defend the seat.Before the walkout, the MPs addressed the crowd and indicated their unwillingness to support the county leader in the forthcoming polls. This is the last Mashujaa Day. Their time to go has come, Elmi said. Let me make my stand very clear. I supported the incumbent governor in 2013. I will not support him again. We are forging a new path, he added.The MP also said he will not defend his seat during the coming polls.Keynan, who is also the chair of the Public Investment in Parliament, called for accountability in the usage of county funds. It is time to think and strategise who did not do what. By the end of this year, Wajir county would have gotten Sh29 billion. We must be accountable for every coin, he said. More on this: Wajir residents want governor Abdullahi arrested over missing Sh1 billionHe said a major conference will be held to forge a winning strategy against the incumbent. We must bring our people together and decide our destiny together. Why will come up with a new lineup, he said.Both Elmi and Keynan (from the Degodia community) and Senator Hassan (Ogaden) are from Orange Democratic Movement, supported the incumbent in the last elections. Hassan said consultations are at a advanced stage to beat a new path for the county leadership. Present was Ugas Shiekh, who is billed as favourite for the legislators to take over the mantle county leadership. Also in the race is Mohamed Abdi Mohamud, current ambassador to Saudi Arabia. In his speech, the Governor said he is concerned of what he called unplanned drilling of boreholes and unnecessary creation of settlements that he said are recipe for conflicts.He cautioned MPs against using CDF against funding projects related to the 14 devolved functions without consulting the county government to avoid wastage of resource and unnecessary duplication of duties . Some of these projects are also causing avoidable conflicts among our communities as public participation is not carried out most of the time, he said.