A state official has said he is left with no option but to use full force to end inter-clan fights in Marakwet East after diplomacy failed.Elgeyo Marakwet county commissioner Fredrick Ndambuki on Thursday said clashes between the Kapsiren and Kapshoi in the Kerio Valley have complicated the fight against banditry.He spoke during the Mashujaa Day celebrations at Iten Day Secondary School. Ndambuki said he needs two weeks to end the fights. We have decided to have a thorough security operation in Marakwet East, he said, accusing youths armed with illegal firearms of forming militias that have zoned areas near Tot trading centre. I have done my part as a county commissioner to unite the two clans since March. Unfortunately, diplomacy has failed, Ndambuki said. It is now my duty to tell the Marakwet community and interested parties to bear with us when we use full force. The tough-talking commissioner said the brazen militias have taken control of two areas and given them Somali names. They have gone to the extent of naming the places as Kismayu One and Kismayu Two. They bar security officers from accessing the areas, he said. We shall do something that will show you my scorecard. He said the government will not allow the militias to continue attacking security officers. The highest level of arrogance was when they shot at my deputy county commissioner, when he visited the area recently. No government will allow such impunity to prevail, Ndambuki said.Marakwet East deputy county commissioner Eric Mulevu and a chief escaped death by a whisker.The Land Rover vehicle they were travelling in was sprayed with bullets by the militia when they visited on October 8.Ndambuki vowed to camp in the Kerio Valley until the clan skirmishes are resolved.He said more police officers will be deployed to schools ahead of the November national examinations. In the past week, bandits have killed one person in the Kerio Valley and forced closure of the subcounty hospital.Three schools have also been closed as fighting over land between two clans continues. Elgeyo Marakwet Health executive Thomas Ruto said 35 hospital workers fled.In July, Marakwet East police boss Emmanuel Rono said security officers comprising the GSU, regular police, AP and police reservists were deployed to restore order.