At a public meeting at the Eldoret Sports Club late in 2009 one Councillor shook the crowd with what was one of the most profound statements about land nationalism in Kenya. The councillor addressing the crowd, said in the Kalenjin language Mi Kegoek yu magase kipchabonik (There are Kikuyus here who have become immune to arrows He said that the only way to remove them was not to use force but to work with them, find out what makes them successful and do it so well that they will feel the competition and seek greener pastures elsewhere. Otherwise, he said, no amount of arrows would remove them from there. He was right.Politics of Ethnic expectationsIn 2007, the Kalenjins overwhelmingly supported Raila Odinga s presidential bid. Raila had positioned himself as their solution to some of their perennial resource-related issues chief of them land. Land as a resource had gained a distinct inter-tribal angle to it, with the migrant Kikuyu being pitted against the Kalenjins in the competition for land in the Rift Valley. Other issues that had attracted the Kalenjin to him President Kibaki s retrenchment of numerous senior Kalenjin civil servants and military personnel which was also a resource-related grievance. The violence that followed Raila s inability to succeed Kibaki, was borne out of the prospect of enduring the status quo which they had banked on him to change. He had failed the expectations of the Kalenjins as a champion of their resource nationalism. Raila today continues to position himself as the answer to the various resource-related challenges that face various communities in Kenya. The question is, is he really the answer or is he a part of the problem?The councillor made the statement during the heady days just after the PEV at a time when Kalonzo Musyoka and William Ruto were still in talking terms and both of whom were present at the meeting. Those not present however, were the thousands of IDPs were still holed up at nearby Eldoret ASK Showground too afraid to return to their homes or farms. They sought refuge there only on one account that they had to be forcefully dispossessed of their land in what can be described as the dialectic culmination of the idea of resource nationalism.Raila and resource nationalismA few days ago, Raila Odinga called for the cancellation of the Northern Collector Water Tunnel project which is meant to draw water from three Murang a rivers to quench the ever increasing thirst of the Nairobi metropolis. The 11.8 km World Bank-funded project has brought to the forefront the issue of the politics of resources in Kenya. Incidentally, as Prime Minister, he had launched the same project in 2013. In a sharp turnaround, Raila now claims that the project would trigger desertification in the region, calling for the voice of the Murang a people to be heard. Governor Mwangi wa Iria castigated him for interfering in the affairs of Murang a. In a quick rejoinder, Raila Odinga told him to stop being a coward and stand up for the survival of his people. He added their livelihoods are in total danger. This is what must be his (wa Iria s) only priority, not pandering to selfish political and commercial interests. That is what Raila said. It is however not what we heard. What we heard was that Hey, arise people of Murang a, your resources are being exploited by other people. You must never allow your future to be threatened by such selfish people from elsewhere. The echo was picked up by Raila s comrade-in-arms Hassan Joho who said the project would affect the entire Coast Region. Unbeknown to both of them, they had waded, yet again, into the politics of resource nationalism.What is Resource nationalism?Resource nationalism is the desire to autonomously control (natural) resources within a given region. It often begins with defining ethnic and geographical boundaries and the desire to exploit the resources within that region for the benefit of those within that region. It is however difficult to discuss resources in this manner without wading into ethnic particularism and outright tribalism. Ethnic jingoism will always set in and you will find communities beating the drums of war. Surprisingly, resource nationalism and the politicization of resources is very close to the politics of Cord and in particular Raila Odinga.Seeing that all players were digging in for a fight, the Government s injection of some Sh. 250 million into the county to assist five water companies, may serve to quieten the murmurs in Murang a, at least for now. However counties downstream along the Tana basin are likely to sustain pressure against the tunnel. Other counties that have great natural resources include those in the North rift with oil and gas, Eastern Kenya with coal and limestone, Coast with rare earth and precious stones, South Rift with geo-thermal, soda ash, wildlife and even agricultural land. Is it a coincidence that these regions are also Cord strongholds ? Do they see that Raila Odinga their champion knight in the quest to defend their resources?Raila Odinga and Hydropolitics In 2008 when Raila Odinga was Prime Minister, a project similar to the Murang a Tunnel but of larger magnitude was being planned for Nandi County. Known as the Nandi Forest Hydropower Multi-purpose Dam Project, the intention was to create a 30-kilometre tunnel to supply water to Kisumu county from a 1,214 hectare dam cleared from the South Nandi forest at the confluence of the Kimondi and Sirua rivers between Kaimosi and Kapsabet. Budgeted to cost a whooping Sh. 23 billion, the project ran into major headwinds and there was an immediate outcry from the residents of Nandi county that the dam s artificial lake would create a desert in the area which is part of the ancient Congo forest belt and would destroy the agricultural sector with the tea industry being most in danger.The argument in favour of the dam advanced by the Lake Basin Development Authority and other players was that it would be an important collector of rain water, a control of flooding downstream, a supply of water to various counties and of cause it would generate electricity (50MW) and so forth. However, if you listened to the arguments from the Nandi side against the dam, you heard arguments like Why is our water going directly to Kisumu There were indeed distinct resource nationalism arguments against the dam. Nandi leaders appealed to Prime Minister Raila Odinga to stop the project. The project appears to have been shelved, at least for now.Hot on the heels of Murang a is the even bigger Kericho dam slated to cost Sh. 34 billion. Again local leaders have turned to Raila for help. Led by former Provincial Commissioner and now Council of Kipsigis Elders Chairman Isaiah Cheluget, the leaders met with Raila at a Kericho hotel seeking his intervention to ensure that the Jubilee flagship project would be shelved.The Nandi, Murang a and now Kericho water issues have put Raila Odinga at the heart of Kenya s hydro-politics the politics of water. This has however not been without intrigue and unintended consequences.Burnt fingersIssues water have once before burnt Raila Odinga s fingers. As Prime Minister, he decided to take on the issues facing Mau forest the most important and largest water tower in Kenya. He was convinced that the destruction of the Mau forest was threatening Kenya s environment in particular the vast Mara River ecosystem that stretched down into the Serengeti in Tanzania. He ordered the immediate evacuation of Mau settlers (mainly Kalenjins). It turned out to be a subject of heated national debate causing serious political problems for Raila Odinga particularly among the Kalenjins who had overwhelmingly supported him in 2007. It wiped out the fanatical following he had among them. In fact, analysts believe the Mau issue was one of the leading causes of his failure in the 2013 poll, because, if he had the Kalenjin vote, he would have comfortably surpassed Uhuru. The Maasais and the people living downstream were however not unhappy with Raila and indeed supported him for his bold move. Surprisingly, the same Kalenjins are turning to him to save the same Mau this time from the threat of the dam. Is this going to be the balm for his burnt fingers?Hydropolitics across the regionThe politics of water have long been a part of the regional engagements particularly with our East African neighbours sharing the Lake Victoria. Kenyan rivers supply 60% of the water of Lake Victoria but Kenya has only has 6% of the lake. Kenya however exports the largest portion of the lake fish and other resources drawn from the Lake, a situation that exposes the economic complexities and inequalities associated with the shared resource. The Migingo conflict is an example of hydro-politics affecting regional relations. The Migingo issue would probably have brought Kenya and Uganda into open armed conflict if it had not been for the diplomatic skills (or lack thereof) of President Mwai Kibaki. Migingo was about the control of the resources of Lake Victoria which, other than the fish, has the potential for hydrocarbons. Further afield, Kenya and most of the Great Lakes nations have been held captive by the 1929 Nile River Agreement which gave Egypt near total control of the waters of the Nile upstream. The Agreement severely limits what countries can do with the waters of the Nile of which Kenya, as stated, is a major contributor.Resources and ConflictResources are increasingly getting scarce, a fact that is identified the single greatest cause of conflict around the world. Oil has given the world numerous intra and inter-regional conflicts with South Sudan being the latest and closest to us. Inevitably, all resources are exhaustible and so, as they become scarce, conflict is almost certain to follow unless we find creative alternatives. In a water poor nation like ours, and with a predictable cycle of droughts that lead to massive food shortages, suffering and death, matters water are not to be taken lightly. Already, more than a million Kenyans are facing starvation following the failure of the short rains early this year.Other than water, perhaps the single most emotive resource in Kenya is land. Land has been identified as a key fault line in Kenya. Ambreena Manji identifies land as being responsible for much violent conflict throughout Kenya s colonial and post-colonial history.Land and politicsLand as a resource, has had a complex relationship with our politics. On November 5, 1960, a group of Maasai youth attacked 3,000 mainly Kikuyu people attending a Kanu rally at Ngong town. In the ensuing melee, one person was killed and five injured. The Maasai who were supporters of the rival Kadu party, considered the presence of Kikuyu in their backyard the precursor to their mass migration into traditional Maasai homelands.Even before Independence resource-related violence and strife have been a part of our national politics. Politicians used land as a major rally in the call for independence. After Independence, ethnic Resource Nationalism emerged with certain communities complaining of migrants from other communities exploiting were their resources or settling their land either through state assistance or through well-funded land-buying companies. Land was then used by politicians to slow down the clamour for multi-partyism and to galvanize support for themselves. Certain politicians feeling the pinch of international pressure for pluralism, fomented ethnic and land nationalism culminating in the so-called land clashes witnessed around the borders of ethnic communities that had lived peacefully for many years. Take Sila Ocholla a resident of Songhor in the Nandi-Kisumu border, who in March 1992 was hit on the head with a club and his two year old daughter shot in the thigh with an arrow by assailants from a neighbouring community. Their crime? Being Their story was just one out of thousands many of whom succumbed to the fighting. By end of April 1992, over 70 people had been killed in the politically motivated ethnic wars. The underlying factor however was resource nationalism.Raila and the saviour mentalityThose supporting Raila Odinga outside his traditional support base is probably because they consider him as the panacea for their resource woes and the only one who will save them from the hegemony of domination by migrant communities. And he acknowledges as much. He has variously castigated the Jubilee government for failing to solve land issues because, he says, they are a part of the problem. It does not help that indeed the Kenyatta family are some of the largest land owners in Kenya and William Ruto has been embroiled in land-related issues for a while now. During the Presidential Debate of 2013, when the matter of land came up, Raila Odinga seemed to absolve Uhuru Kenyatta for not having been a part of the original sin . This was of course in relation to Uhuru s father who, it is said, greatly bungled the issues of land which is still bothering us to date.If you look closely, those support patterns of the Cord coalition outside the origins of its principals, is from regions where the narrative of land dispossession is very strong. Piggy-backing on resource nationalism for political leverage is wrong. It has led to catastrophic results in 2008 and you cant rule out similar occurrence in the future.The era cooperation not confrontationProbably without knowing, the Eldoret councillor had set the trend for the future with regard to resource nationalism among communities that received lots of migrant settlers from other parts of the country. His was the case for cooperation not confrontation. Inevitably, we must learn to work together as Kenyans or die apart as fools poor ones I might add. Cooperation means that indeed we must wake up, smell the coffee and desire to be a part of what is cooking in the kitchen. This of course will not happen overnight but indeed we must make deliberate efforts for this.Take the work done by Cohesion chief Francis ole Kaparo who has paraded counties that have transmuted themselves into ethnic bastions with little participation of migrants among them. The Americans became what they are because they worked with migrants who came from around the world with much needed skills.Resource nationalism brings out the animal in all of us, the animal instinct is to fight and fight enemies for our survival . Raila Odinga must align himself with the politics of cooperation and foster collaboration and cohesion, because, we are joined in the hip by our common humanity our national destiny. In this week when we celebrate our national heroes, Abraham Lincoln echoes Kenya s future in his words, We are not enemies, but friends. We must be not be enemies. Though passion may have strained, it must not break our bonds of affection. The mystic chords of memory will swell when again touched, as surely they will be, by the better angels of our nature. 