A Coast human rights organisation on Thursday urged the Kenya Human Rights Commission to investigate brutality, disappearances and extra-judicial killings by police and security forces.Haki Africa Human Rights Coordinator Francis Auma presented a petition detailing 81 cases of improper arrests, enforced disappearances and killings of residents from 2008-14. Most victims were Muslims. The commission on Thursday launched its public inquiry into insecurity and its impact on human rights and freedoms in Kwale.Security agencies always deny extra-judicial killings and disappearances, but say there may be a few rogues who are always punished.This is the latest report on human rights abuses in Kenya by domestic and international organisations.The Kwale petition is among others documenting brutality, which the region blames for increased insecurity.Auma made submissions before KNCHR vice chairman Gorge Morara, IPOA member Tom Kagwe, commissioner Waruhiu Jedidah and others.He cited six cases he called killings Samir Khan, Ali Masadaka, Silvester Opiyo, Jacob Musyoka, Jeremiah Okumu and Shabaan Namusende.Asked by the commission for evidence linking NYS, police, KDF or Administration police to the cases, Auma said families blame security officers. Family members were told to go to nearby police stations to look for their arrested relatives, but they found none, Auma said.He said many families have evidence, including photographs and video, of the arrests and vehicles used. Many cases involved Probox cars.Auma said the 81 cases include the Masjid Musa raid in Mombasa, in which several children were arrested and released, and the killing of youths.The organisation said terror suspect Ahmed Faraha surrendered to authorities, was arrested, released and rearrested. He has disappeared. It said police are prime suspects.Asked whether the 81 cases include women, Auma said no, adding that children and women are the most-affected, as they depended on those who disappeared and are left hopeless.He said rights groups efforts to work with terror suspects has led state agents to brand them terrorist sympathisers and threaten them. Auma said mostly they must hide to be safe.Haki Africa urged the commission to ensure officers found guilty are charged to restore confidence. If the commission acts,we re very sure such cases will end. We want the DPP to work with police and human rights defenders, Auma said.