Kenya under-23 women s volleyball team take on Rwanda in a decisive match as curtains come down on the 2016 women s Africa Nations Championship today at the Safaricom Indoor Arena, Kasarani.The tie is crucial to both teams as they are tied second on table standing with six points each although Kenya have an edge over Rwanda after they snatched a set from Egypt on Monday.Egypt have already booked one of the two slots up for grabs ahead of the next year World Championship in Slovenia.Egypt were set to play Senegal later yesterday and a win against the win-less west Africans will see them extend lead on standing to nine points with a game in hand against Botswana today.The national team under stewardship of Catherine Mabwi will come up against a side coached by Kenya export Paul Bitok. Rwanda yesterday defeated Botswana 3-0 (25-16,25-19,25-17) to move joint second with Kenya on six points.Bitok and Mabwi worked together as the Kenya national junior team coaches during the 2008 and 2009 championship and it will be interesting to see how they will conduct themselves today from the opposite end of the court.Commenting on today s tie, Mabwi said there is a lot to play for and they can t afford to lose the match before the home crowd. As it stands, Egypt have already bagged one of the two slots by virtue of maintaining unbeaten run so far in the tournament and therefore, there is only one slot to fight for. We want to be that team that joins Egypt at the global show, said Mabwi.She added: Rwanda are coached by our very own coach Paul Bitok and in a way, he knows a thing or two about Kenya. But all said and done, we are determined to win the match. The players know what is at stake and know exactly what to do. On his part, Bitok said the feeling of playing against your very own people is always disturbing and you are bound to have mixed feelings.He said: Playing Kenya is always tough. It s not easy to play with your home country especially people who have been close to you . I really like our Kenyan players and it s so unfortunate that I will be looking for the same ticket. I have nothing but to wish my sisters all the best and may the best team win. In the first match of day, Egypt will play Botswana.