National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi will today host a clan of the Mbeere to drum up support for Runyenjes MP Cecily Mbarire for Embu governor.Also expected to attend is a Cabinet Secretary.Mbarire is engaged in a bitter campaign against Embu Governor Martin Wambora and Senator Lenny Kivuti. She and Kivuti recently exchanged bitter words at a public event, in which she tried to snatch the microphone from the senator.Last week, Kivuti held another meeting with 39 clans of the community in which he was endorsed to run for the seat.The elders said their Embu neighbours could not nominate one of their own to take over Kivuti's seat in the Senate.Muturi supports Mbarire against Kivuti, who defeated him in the 2007 race for Siakago MP. It is after Muturi lost his seat that he became the Speaker.Both Muturi and Kivuti come from the Mbeere tribe, but different clans.This weekend's meeting is therefore the Speaker's side of the clan that will seek to undo widespread reports that Kivuti has been endorsed by the elders.The meeting to be held at a hotel in Embu town.Wambora has had a troubled four years at the helm of the county. MCAs have made attempts to have him removed through impeachment.He has said he will continue to push his development agenda in the county as the 'warlords' continue to fight. He said his opponents will not deter him from achieving what he promised in 2013 as his mandate expires next year. for Embu governor.Also expected to attend is a Cabinet Secretary.Mbarire is engaged in a bitter campaign against Embu Governor Martin Wambora and Senator Lenny Kivuti. She and Kivuti recently exchanged bitter words at a public event, in which she tried to snatch the microphone from the senator.Last week, Kivuti held another meeting with 39 clans of the community in which he was endorsed to run for the seat.The elders said their Embu neighbours could not nominate one of their own to take over Kivuti's seat in the Senate.Muturi supports Mbarire against Kivuti, who defeated him in the 2007 race for Siakago MP. It is after Muturi lost his seat that he became the Speaker.Both Muturi and Kivuti come from the Mbeere tribe, but different clans.This weekend's meeting is therefore the Speaker's side of the clan that will seek to undo widespread reports that Kivuti has been endorsed by the elders.The meeting to be held at a hotel in Embu town.Bumpy termWambora has had a troubled four years at the helm of the county. MCAs have made attempts to have him removed through impeachment.He has said he will continue to push his development agenda in the county as the 'warlords' continue to fight. He said his opponents will not deter him from achieving what he promised in 2013 as his mandate expires next year.