Doctors in Nairobi have abandoned negotiations with the county government in the wake of an ongoing strike over promotions.Health CEC Bernard Muia said union officials led by their branch secretary-general Kaugiria Thuranira stormed out of his office on Friday.Muia termed the doctor's act as unceremonious and disrespectful , adding that the county has met all the demands by the medics."The county government has already paid the Sh34 million salary arrears demanded by doctors last month," he said.He added that they had promoted all the 52 pending common cadre (Group N) doctors last week. Muia said a board will sit next week to review promotion applications of 46 consultants who do not qualify for automatic upgrade."We have been having meetings with county union representatives including Thuranira. We have met all their conditions," he said."The doctors stormed out of my office unceremoniously. They have no goodwill to end the stalemate," he told the Star.He said the union now seemed bent on grandstanding and holding the county government to ransom.Muia further waned doctors against skipping work on Monday saying that they will be sacked for the same. "I have stretched my limits. As an employer we now have to take action. Nairobi people have suffered adequately. Health services must be rendered seamlessly," he said. The CEC noted a few of the promotion letters had some errors , which will be corrected."Some letters of promotion were returned to the chief officer with the grievances scribbled on the letters. That is the worst I have seen in my life. Absolutely disrespectful," the CEC said.Nairobi doctors went on strike in September demanding Sh34 million in salary arrears for six months.The stalemate was resolved before the medics staged yet another impasse on grounds of promotions.Read: Nairobi doctors issue fresh strike notice over promotions They also demanded the remittance of pending statutory and non-statutory deductions.The strike has paralysed services at the city's hospitals, forcing patients to seek treatment at Kenyatta National Hospital.Last week, Health CS Cleopa Mailu said Kenya must rethink the matter of allowing doctors as members of workers' unions.The CS said the situation has posed more harm than good owing to the paralysis that the industrial action called by the unions cause."You just cannot close a hospital or a health centre and let Kenyans die to put a point across. We need to discuss with all stakeholders how to take care of the health worker... without taking away anybody s right," Dr Mailu said in a past media interview.Only about 4,000 doctors work in public hospital in Kenya. Recently, Dr Ouma Oluga of the doctors' union told the Star the strikes come after all other avenues of negotiation have been exhausted."Most of our strikes have been for patients rights rather than for doctors salaries," he said.