Leading international bookmaker Betway has formally launched in Kenya with promises of bringing customers closer to sporting action and engaging in CSR. The firm ventured into Kenya&nbsp; in a bid to tap into the growing gaming business, g lobal board member Lord St John of Blesto (House of Lords) said on&nbsp; Wednesday. &ldquo;Over the coming months...th e focus will be on offering services including live betting, virtual gaming and even more sports betting options,&rdquo; he said during the official launch in Nairobi. At the event, former Gatanga MP and presidential aspirant Peter Kenneth beat a field of other prominent personalities to emerge winner of the dribbling challenge.John said Kenya was chosen as a lead to other African countries but noted the company has set its footprint in Uganda. Betway began operations in the country more than a year ago, when it set up offices with at least 40 employees. It has begun heavily investing in local operations. &ldquo;Betway&rsquo;s services continue to be backed by the highest standards of technology and services that their customers have come to expect,&quot; said John. He added: &quot;Betway has integrated well with local mobile phone companies which allow easy utilisation of mobile money wallets and lends to the ease of use and speed for clientele.&quot; Kiprono Kittony, the company&#39;s newly-appointed chairman, said Kenya has proven to be a liberalised market with a conducive environment for growth. The firm said it will fully remain committed to laws, regulations and codes of conduct in the Kenyan market. Among the corporate social responsibility activities Betway has supported is the sponsorship of the Mathare United football club. &ldquo;Various initiatives are already underway to uplift and support local leagues across different sporting disciplines, to improve club facilities and enhance player skills,&rdquo; said Kenya country manager Wanja Gikonyo said. The company has launched a talent search programme which has attracted more than 2,000 applicants from across the country so far. The Betway Group was launched in 2006 to provide entertainment featuring sports betting, casino, bingo and poker. It operates across a number of regulated online markets and holds licenses in the UK, Malta, Italy, Denmark, Spain, Belgium, Germany, Kenya and now Uganda. &nbsp;