In one moment of madness, back in 1991, William Chepkut, grabbed a TV set, raised it above his head, and smashed it to smithereens.Then a student at Kenya Polytechnic, Chepkut was furious with the decision by a local TV station to air news he considered unfair to then powerful Minister, Nicholas Biwott - known to one and all then, as The Total Man .This bizarre incident was to ultimately lead to the two becoming close acquaintances. They have worked closely together ever since. So much so that Biwott rarely attends a function, locally or abroad, without Chepkut beside him. Biwott has made me who I am today and I respect him a lot, he says, scarcely hiding his pride. He is like my father and mentor. Within the Rift Valley, he is referred to as the power behind Biwott.But a closer look shows that Chepkut is a humble and obedient student who has learnt valuable lessons from his master.And after more than 20 years in the service of Biwott, Chepkut now wants to chart his own political career.He unsuccessfully vied for the Ainabkoi Parliamentary seat in 2013. He lost to Samwel Chepkonga of URP.But as a man who never gives up, he has decided to make another bid come next year.He has however shifted his political affiliation from Biwott s National Vision (NVP) and will be seeking the ticket of the Jubilee Party.Chepkut was born in a humble family.But his parents taught him to live with a big heart; accommodate other people and embrace kindness at all times. I am very rich at heart and I like sharing whatever God has given me all the time, he says, describing himself as greatly gifted in the art of communication.He has several cars at his disposal but Chepkut regularly criss-crosses Ainabkoi on a motorcycle or on foot just as he used to do during his childhood.Here he quotes the Bible: What does it profit a man if he gain the whole world but loses his soul? He aims to ensure equity in wealth creation, education and health lamenting that poverty remains a major challenge which leaders should help fight. Nelson Mandela is my role model and he once said education is a weapon that can change the whole world and makes us equal, says Chepkut.On many occasions Chepkut has shelved his campaign programmes to use the money on paying for medical bills at hospitals mostly in Eldoret.*****1970: Born at Katuiyo, Keiyo South1983: Flax Boarding Primary School1989: Completed Atanas Kandie Secondary1990: Kenya Polytechnic, Diploma in Supplies Management graduated in 1992.1993: Jalpul University, India, graduated with a Degree in Business and Commerce in 1995.1997: District Officer, Meru.1998: Office of President, Personal Assistant to Nicholas Biwott.2003: Kenyatta University, graduated with a Master s Degree in Community Development in 2005.2013: Vied for Ainabkoi Parliamentary seat through NVP but lostQUOTES2013: Leaders should not to betray the trust the top country leadership has in them. Some local leaders are putting in public trivial issues accusing the government of all manner of ills. This is tantamount to hatching a plot against the Jubilee leadership. The president and the deputy are intertwined in the constitution, you cannot fight any of them without touching on the other so be careful. 2014: We shall take action against individuals who spread the rumour, including a media personality who announced the supposed death on his twitter account. It was very careless of him. This has caused a lot of tension and shock to Biwott s family, friends and supporters. Such people need to be tamed. 2016: If elected I want to do things differently. I will listen more and value community participation in all initiatives. I am God fearing and I want to be a servant leader and not a master dictating people always. I have learnt that there are two types of politicians. There are politicians who are real leaders with a calling to provide leadership and serve the people and then there are those who are in politics as a business for personal gain .