Mwamba head coach Kevin Wambua will be cautious in his approach to their matches as the Kenya Cup season kicks off on November 5.Wambua, who took over the reins at the1984 Kenya Cup champions in August said: As far as the league is concerned we are taking it a game at a time but shall definitely put our best foot forward and treat every game like a final. Talking to kenyacup.co.ke, he added: My main focus was to improve the players skill set and conditioning before introducing them to our patterns of play and structure. I am impressed with how quickly the boys have adapted and improved. One can t help but think that this season s Kenya Cup will be very competitive especially if we look at how close the games were during Floodies. The league has retained its conference format and with a reduced number of teams, there is no place to hide; there are no whipping boys either. He bemoaned the loss of Dan Sikuta, who moved to Kabras Sugar but as luck would so have it, this gave his younger brother Steve, a chance to shine. We are excited to have Kenya Sevens international Billy Odhiambo coming through from the Strathmore Leos and Alex Aturo from the Mt Kenya University Titans. They are explosive players with that wow factor, he revealed. They are good additions to Kulabu. We are still hoping to sign a few more players who have been on our radar before the close of the transfer window. We look forward to the new league season. Mwamba will start their campaign away to Top Fry Nakuru. Wambua s counterpart at Blak Blad Michael Tank Otieno is equally optimistic of a good show following a 10th place finish last season. Tank said: Our preparations are going on well. We have an average of 50 players turning out for each session. We have some new boys coming through such as Brian Wahinya, Allan Ominde, Lionel Ekesa and Ian Obukwa. We still have seasoned players in the form of Levy Amunga, Wesley Kidinga and Steven Odhiambo in our ranks. Looking at our expectations ahead of the new league season, we aim to obviously finish above last season s final 10th place, added Tank.