Devolution is a dream come true for many Kenyan 'shujaas' as it has improved services at the grassroots, Kiambu Governor William Kabogo has said.He spoke in Githunguri on Thursday as Kenya marked Mashujaa Day in honour of those who contributed to the struggle for independence.Kabogo said decentralisation of resources has enabled his county to invest in infrastructure and health, exploit business opportunities and improve living standards. The best way to honour our heroes is to ensure equitable access to economic resources irrespective of social status, religion, age or political affiliation, he said. Counties have spent the past three years paving the way and setting the foundation for this to happen. Kabogo said Kiambu has allocated more than Sh200 million to boost the growth of small and medium-size entreprises through its Biashara Fund. Beneficiaries include individuals, women s saccos and youth groups. I am grateful for stories I hear because our main objective is to see women and men become entrepreneurs, he noted.The Governor added that they must invest heavily in education, including vocational training for young men and women.He said the county has improved early childhood education by recruiting 1,300 caregivers so children can start learning at an early age. We have completed the refurbishment of 25 ECDE centres and 25 youth polytechnics, and procured and delivered tools and equipment to all the 31 polytechnics," he said.He noted this will ensure learners have access to well-equipped and operational institutions.On transport, Kabogo said they have upgraded roads enabling visitors to reach their destinations easilly.Regarding health, he reported that the county purchased eight ambulances for rapid response to emergencies and established a renal unit at Thika Level 5 Hospital.The facility was equipped with with eight dialysis machines, eradicating the need to travel to Nairobi for treatment.Kabogo said the hospital will have a modern maternity and neonatal wing. He said Kiambu Level-4 Hospital was also undergoing renovation to boost its capacity to handle patients.The county government has added dental units to the Wangige, Githunguri and Karuri Level 4 hospitals. Soon, a state-of-the-art dental unit will be opened at the Thika Level-5 Hospital to handle all specialties in dental cases and surgeries. Level-2 and level-3 health facilities have increased to 70 from 52 in 2013, said Kabogo.