The one place you re guaranteed to find original art at reasonable prices is the Affordable Art Show. Now in it its fourth decade, the exhibition will take place at the Courtyard area of the Nairobi National Museum from October 28-30.Featuring an extensive array of paintings and sculptures in different media, the show acts as a platform to expose upcoming East African artists, many of whom are unrepresented. For buyers, it is an excellent opportunity to acquire pieces by promising creators or start an art collection, while supporting fledgling talent.However, well-established artists regularly feature as well. Previous years have seen works by Michael Soi, Joseph Bertiers Mbatia, Peter Kinuthia and Anne Mwiti.The show is organised by the Kenya Museum Society, a volunteer group that raises funds for the National Museums of Kenya. The funds go to projects that facilitate research, preservation and dissemination of Kenya s cultural and natural heritage. There is no other art show in Kenya that does that, says Nairobi Museum art curator Lydia Gatundu-Galavu.As implied by the event name, all works are priced at under Sh100,000, even those pieces by well-established artists who specially prepare pieces for the show. The event maintains a careful balance between affordability and quality. Hundreds of works are submitted to the KMS, each of which must pass criteria for artistic expression and other requirements. Last year, nearly 450 pieces of art were submitted, of which 310 pieces were exhibited, making it the largest juried art show in East Africa according to KMS.Entry is free apart from the opening night event, and more than 150 artists have already sent in work this year. For the last three years, at least 25 per cent of the pieces get sold, which exceeds the gallery average of 15 per cent, and one-third of the cash sale price goes towards museum projects. Proceeds from last year s event were allocated for the second phase of the Joy Adamson permanent exhibition, and to renovate a work and storage space for the museum s taxidermy and osteology departments. For first-timers, the Affordable Art Show is a wonderful occasion to start exploring art. And for the young, there is a Saturday morning art appreciation session, where children get to look at pieces of art around them and experiment with creating art. The Courtyard area makes for a non-intimidating and laidback venue, compared to a traditional gallery.