WHAT really made all Luhya MPs keep off Budalang i MP Ababu Namwamba s LPK launch last month? Corridors is told some MPs, especially his allies, who were publicly paraded as having joined the Jubilee Party, were furious with Namwamba (pictured) after he demanded they denounce their defection during the LPK launch. It is said the MPs vowed to give his launch a wide berth because denouncing their move to JP would have rendered them jokers , betraying both their constituents and JP principals. It is said Namwamba had no option but to leave ODM for his own party, as agreed earlier with Jubilee leaders out to reap Western votes. **** A governor in Northeastern had an embarrassing moment yesterday during the Mashujaa Day celebrations after all county MPs, a number of MCAs and a crowd walked out on him as he delivered his speech. The leaders drove out of the stadium in a thick cloud of dust, leaving a bewildered governor and his handlers behind. The governor addressed the county in an empty podium, surrounded by an eerie silence. The five MPs, who supported the youthful governor in the 2013 election, have fallen out with him, accusing the man of arrogance and high-handedness. **** A governor under siege from a group of MPs from his county is always in panic and has been known for splashing money whenever he is confronted with a political challenge from his opponents. The flamboyant county chief from Nyanza, who recently acquired a chopper, has been wooing his opponents with money to persuade them not to challenge him at next year s polls. He has reportedly awarded them lucrative tenders at the expense of competitiveness on top of hiring their cronies and associates. One of the MPs from the county was overhead making a call at Parliament Buildings threatening the governor that he will also soon declare his interest in the top county post if he is not given a lucrative tender in the region of Sh50 million. Residents are wondering if the governor has formed a members club to loot from county coffers, and why the boss has to go the extra mile to stifle competition. They now await Auditor General Edward Ouko s report for 2014-15. **** TRANSPORT CS James Macharia was on Wednesday ambushed by the President to announce when a road in Ngong will be officially opened. Macharia was attempting to mollify residents who had complained of the road s progress when the President told him residents wanted specifics, not stories. Macharia then said the road will be ready next month. And before he finished, the President fixed the date for November 5, when he will be accompanied by Macharia to open its construction. We are not sure if the costs of the construction of the new road are in the current budget.