Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula faces what appears to be a growing rebellion in his party after more than 400 delegates signed a petition to remove him from office.The scheme is spearheaded by rebel branch chairmen, led by activist Ken Wafula. Most of those who have signed are from the Western, Rift Valley, Nyanza and Nairobi branches.The petitioners want secretary general Simiyu Eseli to summon a National Delegates&rsquo; Conference next month so they can axe Wetang&rsquo;ula from the position. However, deputy party leader Boni Khalwale yesterday dismissed the move as ill-advised and unworkable.Kwanza MP Ferdinand Wanyonyi, who is also the Trans Nzoia chairman, yesterday said they have banned Wafula from carrying out any activities in the county. Wafula has declared his interest in the county&rsquo;s Senate seat.&ldquo;We&rsquo;ve said clearly Wafula is not a member of Ford Kenya. We&rsquo;ll not allow him to mess up the party or its leader. He has taken a wrong route,&rdquo; Wanyonyi said.But Wafula yesterday said he will not give up on the wishes of party members in more than 35 counties. He said they want Ford Kenya reformed before next year&rsquo;s polls. The rebel group plans to host a delegates&rsquo; meeting in Nairobi to discuss the party leadership.I&rsquo;m bona fide member &mdash; wafula &ldquo;We had the last NDC in 2011. As per our constitution, we&rsquo;ll use the meeting to convene the NDC this year. We&rsquo;re allowed to do so if Eseli will not do it,&rdquo; Wafula said as he showed this reporter a list of those who signed the petition. &ldquo;Ford Kenya has grown weaker because Wetang&rsquo;ula is not interested in strengthening it.&rdquo;Wafula denied claims he is not a member of the party. He produced his membership card and a confirmation from the registrar of political parties that he became a member after defecting from Safina in 2014.Wafula dismissed claims that he is used by outsiders to fight Wetang&rsquo;ula. Khalwale accused the activist of being used by some forces to give the impression that Wetang&rsquo;ula is under siege.