Courts have always insisted that their orders must be obeyed. In fact, if there is anything that irritates a judicial officer, it is disobedience of a court order. Tens of rulings have been made to this effect, all bearing the same message: You cannot choose whether to comply or not with a court order. A decision of the Court of Appeal regularly quoted by other judges reads: Court orders must be obeyed at all times to maintain the rule of law and good order. Court orders must be obeyed, whether one agrees with them or not. If one does not agree with an order, then he ought to move the court to discharge the same. But what happens when these orders are open to abuse? And what about projects worth billions of shillings, which are stalled for ages because of a court order?Police transfers stoppedPicture this. In June last year, traffic police officers in charge of weighbridges moved to court and challenged their mass transfers by Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet.The 100 or so police officers argued that the abrupt mass transfers were unfair and meant to punish them. The IG s action is likely to cause discontent, demotivation and affect the good performance of the officers, they said.They demanded to be treated with dignity and a right to be heard before the mass transfers. The affected officers were given 10 days to report to their new stations, a move they said was inconsiderate and illegal.Other police pulled a similar move in March 2013, when they sued the then IG David Kimaiyo to stop him from punishing them after they defied a directive ordering them to report to their new stations.The 30 officers based at the Athi River weighbridge said the move was illegal. The officers were part of close to 200 others who had been moved in mass transfers announced by Kimaiyo. Those affected were manning the Athi River, Busia, Gilgil, Mariakani and Webuye weighbridges.Development stalledAnd this year, Kenya Railways complained in court that it had lost about Sh200 million in seven days after a court order suspended the construction of the Standard Gauge Railway.Through its lawyer Cecil Miller, KR pleaded with the court to vacate the order, saying the parastatal is losing Sh37,600,000 a day while the order is in place.The case was filed by Africa Oil and Gas Company, which sought compensation after its parcel was compulsorily acquired by the government to construct the railway line.A similar battle, the Lake Turkana Wind Power project, is to be played out in court, as residents accuse the company of acquiring 150,000 acres of their ancestral land without consulting them.The Sh75 billion wind power project in Marsabit county is expected to generate 300 megawatts. The residents say they were not involved in the land acquisition and, in 2015, the court issued an order restraining the company to keep their activities to 87,000 acres. The judgment is due next month.Another Vision 2030 project, the Kinangop Wind Park, suffered a blow when residents successfully challenged it.The construction of phase two of the SGR from Nairobi to Naivasha is also under threat, after conservationists challenged a move to route the railway line through the Nairobi National Park.Amendment to land lawsTired of the many court injunctions and stalling of multibillion-shilling projects, the government has proposed a bill to regulate the process of compulsory acquisition for public infrastructure projects.The Land Value Index Laws (amendment) Bill 2016 seeks to amend the Land Act to ease the acquisition of and access to land rights over land to successfully implement infrastructure projects . The bill is likely to draw criticism because a section of it proposes that upon taking formal possession of the land, no order should be issued stopping any development where public funds have already been committed.Lawyer Lempaa Suiyanka says the bill is not likely to succeed because it purports to take away what the constitution has given to Kenyans. It is my right to move to court and get whatever relief, if I feel my rights have been infringed upon or are likely to be threatened, he said. Activist Okiya Omtatah agrees. The activist, who has successfully sought several injunctions against the government, including over the construction of the SGR through the Nairobi National Park, said: You cannot take away a people s sovereignty . President Uhuru Kenyatta has indicated that the project will go on despite protests. However, Omtatah says the government should follow the law in implementing such huge projects. I am doing what the constitution has empowered me to do. The constitution says every person has an obligation to respect, uphold and defend it, as stated in Article 3. I also have a duty to ensure the rule of law is followed, he said.Omtatah says the constitution has prescribed how public procurements should be carried out under Article 227, but sadly, the law is not followed. That is why I go to court, he said.The activist says anything done contrary to the law is a nullity. I have to protect public interest, he said. For example, on the SGR route through the park, Omtatah says no development can be approved inside the park because NNP does not have a management plan. No development can proceed without the management plan. It is that simple. Secondly, the park is a national resource and anything of the sort can only be done after ratification by Parliament, he said. The amendment bill also seeks to regulate acquisition to harmonise and standardise compensation. It says there are huge variations in the amounts paid by way of compensation, which has led to huge inequities to those whose land was compulsorily acquired .It says the Vision 2030 development strategy is largely pegged on development of infrastructure, which is dependent on, among other things, the availability of land. The bill will also establish the Land Acquisition Tribunal, which will have jurisdiction to hear and determine appeals from decisions from the National Land Commission, in relation to the process of compulsory compensation.