With the new Kenya Cup season set to kick off on November 5, former back-to-back champions KCB are determined to secure one of the top two slots in their conference in bid to increase their chances of qualifying for playoffs.KCB s Kenya Cup reign was cut short by eventual runners up Impala Saracens who beat them 19-15 during the just concluded season at Impala grounds. Impala have since become their bane after also eliminating the bankers in the final of the Impala Floodlit tournament final by a close margin of 33-32.KCB are in Conference A that also includes defending champions Kabras Sugar, Nakuru RFC, Mwamba, Western Bulls and University of Nairobi s Mean Machine. Conference B has Impala Saracens, Kenya Harlequins, Homeboyz, Strathmore Leos, Blak Blad and Nondescripts. My plan this season is to finish top two in our conference so as to reach the playoff stage. My players are on toes and yearning to make amends having lost last season at a very crucial stage. We also lost narrowly to the same side during the just concluded Impala Floodlit tournament, said KCB team manager, Ronnie Kangeta. We will not underrate any team here and we will play every match like a final. There will be no room for errors and we will take every chance as it comes. Kangeta is, however, wary of his players earning call ups to the national team. Five players have since been called to join the Kenya Simbas, currently in off season as they await confirmation to resume training ahead of the Curry Cup tournament in South Africa later this year. Two other players, Andrew Amonde and Martin Owila, are meeting with the Kenya Sevens management with the possibility of making the cut into the team. We have gotten used to playing without Amonde but should the other six players join the national team, then the gap will be huge. We, however, hope the young players will strive to blend in as these players are not growing any younger, he added. Injuries and job commitments are also robbing the team of senior players. Curtis Lilako was sidelined during the Impala Floodlit quarter-final due to a torn knee muscle and Billy Isabwa keeps on picking an injury whenever he plays for the club. That means we have to get another Fly-half by the time the season begins, he added.The team has, however, sought services of other new players with the transfer season remaining open till next month. Collins Nato and Ishmael Mokaya have joined camp from Nondescripts while Felix Ojow and Raymond Lilako have joined from Homeboyz and Kenyatta University s Black Blad respectively. The bankers will host a struggling Western Bulls during their first Conference A match at KCB Sports Club on November 5 during the first round of the Kenya Cup season.