As far as engagements go, Frank s and mine was pretty memorable. I still blush when I think of it. Yes. Consummated in a restaurant rest room. Who does that? I was A total whore. The only thing that has changed a few months later is that I m sipping champagne with a different man. I m still a whore. And from the look in Frank s eyes (He has just walked into the restaurant Eric and I are having lunch at), I know exactly what he s thinking. There s the whore.A strange familiar feeling washes over me. Not embarrassment. Not shame. I am instead, inexplicably, turned on. I remember everything about that night. I m not sure what the appeal is in doing the forbidden in a public place, but it s pretty amazing. I remember how, after we sipped champagne, from under the table, I slipped my shoe off and raised my foot up. I remember finding his thighs and placing my stockinged foot on his crotch. I remember thinking how everyone was innocently having their meals and I had a totally different meal in mind. What are you doing? Someone might see, he had innocently said, looking around nervously. Will you let me be your whore tonight? I had asked, teasing, prodding. I remember how he had licked his lips. You re going to make it hard for me to leave this table, he had said. I prodded some more. He was getting hard. What am I, Frank? I had asked. My girlfriend, he answered. What am I Frank? I asked. My fianc e, he responded with a grin. What am I, Frank? I asked again. The love of my life? he quipped. What am I?! My whore. You are my whore, he had finally answered. I was instantly aroused. I wanted him. So badly. I remember it like it were yesterday. My body remembers it, too, and I shift in my seat as I feel myself moistening slightly. Say it again, I had urged him. Samantha, you re my dirty, little whore. I wonder if it s possible to do it here. In the bathroom? I then asked. I was not really serious. I was just flirting with him, but after I said the words, it did not seem that far-fetched. Frank shook his head at the time, looking horrified. No way. You re crazy. That, of course, was my cue to go into the bathroom. He followed me, and the rest, as they say is, history. But that was a long time ago. Thanks to my sex tape with The Prude, Frank hates me now. Our engagement is broken off. There s nothing between us. And the look of disdain he gives me now as he stands at the entrance of the restaurant says it all. He breaks eye contact first. He walks past without even acknowledging me and sits inside the bar, away from our view. Will you excuse me for a moment? I need the bathroom, I say to Eric. Please watch my phone. I then follow Frank into the bar area. You won t even say hello? I ask as I approach the counter where he has taken a stool.He doesn t respond. Unfazed, I take the stool next to him. When I saw you walk in, I remembered the night you proposed to me. I remembered what you did to me that night in the restroom, I say. He takes a sip of his drink and continues to ignore me. I know you re mad at me. I know I ve hurt you deeply, I say. But you don t have to talk to me. Just follow me again. Into there . I gesture towards the direction of the Ladies room with a tilt of my head.