Our local newspapers over the past week or so featured prominently, the report of a team led by the Auditor General, Mr Edward Ouko.This was an audit team which had been set up to look into the social and economic impact of the new constitution of 2010. Its findings were of the kind that cannot be said to be in the least flattering for the Committee of Experts which back in 2009 or thereabouts was given the task of harmonizing the rival drafts that had been drawn up for the proposed new constitution. But focusing on the subject at hand, there were four major points made in this audit report. First, that Kenyans are very considerably over-represented in terms of elected representatives in comparison to other nations with similar populations and of a similar level of economic development. Second, that with the new system of devolved county governments, the governors had gone out of their way to employ more workers than could be justified for the devolved functions . Third, that from the senate to the governors to the MPs and even to the MCAs, all elected representatives are not only overpaid, but indeed they command some of the highest salaries for such positions in the whole world. Finally, that corruption had taken a firm hold of these county governments, and there was enormous theft and waste in all the counties, effectively diluting the gains that may have been made with the introduction of devolution. On reading all this, I thought to myself: It did not need a special audit to reveal these things. All this has been obvious from the daily newspaper reports since the implementation of devolution. And indeed the inevitability of all this was perfectly obvious to some of us, even before the new constitution was promulgated. And to a large degree I blame the legal theorists who blindly copied from the South African constitution in coming up with our new constitution. They simply were not empirical enough in their approach to constitution-making. For if they had started with an empirical assessment of our needs as a nation, they would have realised that we were best served by selective modifications to what we already had: the Westminster system of parliamentary democracy.Take for example the case of the County Women Representatives positions, created by the new constitution of 2010. In theory it all sounds very attractive that we should seek to have more women in parliament. And I am as well aware as anyone else that there are some communities in Kenya in which the voters would still prefer to have a blatantly semi-literate man represent them, rather than have a highly educated woman.But think of how it has all now turned out in practice. Is it not true that there are County Women Representatives who have barely said a word on the floor of parliament in the last four years? Can we honestly say that the issues of deep concern to women in this country have been advanced by the existence of 47 newly-minted County Women Representatives? Is there any legislation worth the name that has come forth from any of them to sincerely improve the lot of women in this country?And it s not only the County Women Representatives. The senate also has a sizeable number of women in it, nominated in accordance with the constitutional requirement for the two-thirds gender rule .What have these nominated senators really done for the millions of poor rural women in this country?And yet, it may well be that these additional numbers of women - nominated or elected to the National Assembly and the Senate - can be justified as a well-intentioned attempt to bring more women into public life.What cannot be justified, and what we cannot pretend was ever well-intentioned, is the vast increase in the number of MPs. We now have 290 MPs elected at the constituency level; 47 County women representatives; and 12 nominated MPs, giving us a total of 349 elected representatives sitting in the National Assembly. Then we have 47 elected senators; 16 women nominated to the senate by political parties; two senators representing the youth; and two senators representing persons with disabilities. That is a total of 67 senators.If we add all this, we get 416 people elected to our Parliament, which is now a two-chamber parliament, comprising of the National Assembly and the Senate. For all intents and purposes, we now have double the number of legislators that we had before the new constitution came into force.And all this for a population of roughly 46 million people; and that is before we even include the almost 100 governors and deputy governors and the thousands of MCAs. In sharp contrast, in the USA, the world s leading economy, with a population of 318 million, they have just 435 Congressmen (the equivalent of our MPs) and 100 senators. In other words, the US has about six times as many people as Kenya; but our total number of elected national leaders is not very much lower than theirs. This ridiculous over-representation would be bad enough on its own. But then there is also the matter of their emoluments. According to the Auditor-General s report, Kenyan elected leaders, right from the governors and senators down to the MCAs are some of the highest paid elected leaders in the world. Here I can provide an example I know very well: in Britain, an MP earns a basic monthly salary of the about the equivalent to Kshs 770,000; in Kenya, an MP earns Ksh 740,000 every month. Then I could add the personal bodyguards, as well as the Mercedes Benzes and Range Rovers, and other luxury cars that the Kenyan MPs feel entitled to, and are invariably seen in.And bear in mind that these additional benefits are also provided for those MPs, County Women Representatives and Senators, elected or nominated, who as I have said, have yet to make any contribution on the floor of the House, worthy of note. Finally, there is the absurdity of the duplication of functions. I cannot pretend to follow the current proceedings in parliament or in the senate very closely. But I remember very well what used to happen when I was Attorney General back in the early 1960s, the last time we had a senate. I would get my people in the AG s office to draft a Bill to address some important national priority. This Bill would then go through three readings in the National Assembly. If it successfully passed through this stage, bearing in mind all kinds of amendments may have been proposed to the original Bill, you would then have to go through three more readings in the senate and again with the possibility of multiple amendments. When that first senate was abolished by law in 1966 after just three years of existence and its members absorbed into the National Assembly, among more general benefits, it made my work much easier. The very same group of men (there were no women in parliament then) were still engaging in debate on the issues raised by the Bills before them, and making the decisions on whether to support it or not. But they were doing so in a unicameral Parliament, and not in two separate chambers. I say all this to support my view that the time has come for a comprehensive assessment of what the new constitution has proved to be in practice, in contrast with the many purely theoretical benefits that we were assured it would bring.First and foremost, we must reduce the burden that the salaries paid to our elected representatives bring to bear on our annual budget.In a country with so many poor people; in a country where women still walk for miles to get water for their families; in a country where many go to bed hungry, and electricity remains a myth for a good part of the population; there can be no excuse for that level of expenditure being devoted to paying salaries for elected leaders. But equally important is an immediate and drastic reduction in the numbers of such representatives.And there is plenty of precedent for this.In Britain, for example, up to 1999, there were 1,330 members in the upper house, the historic House of Lords. After the House of Lords Act of 1999 was passed by the Tony Blair government, the numbers were reduced to approximately half there are just 669 members in the House of Lords now.And I would propose much the same thing for us here in Kenya, as a preliminary step:First reduce the number of elected representatives by half. And then reduce their salaries by half.That may not solve all our problems. But it would be a good place to start.But in the end the real solution is to revert to the Westminster model of parliamentary democracy. In our specific circumstances, there is really no excuse for the cumbersome and extremely expensive legislative structure we have in place right now.