Kenyan Kung Fu clubs are set to benefit from expert training by masters from the Beijing International Arts School next month.A team of 10 Kung Fu masters from Beijing are expected in the country later this month courtesy of pay Tv Startimes and will conduct a for a series of activities.The training will take place on November 3 at the Kenyatta International Conference Centre and has attracted clubs from Kiambu, Muthurwa, Kangemi, Kayole and Majengo.All the visiting experts are masters with over eight years experience, teaching martial arts routine at the master and national level and have attained referee martial arts routine grade 7. In addition Startimes will on October 29 link up with local trainers to identify top three Chinese Kung Fu (WuShu) players, who will visit the Beijing International Arts School on an all-expenses paid one-week training. The Beijing International Arts School has in the past provided martial arts training courses for students from Russia, Vietnam, Myanmar, Cambodia, Korea, Japan, the United States and other European countries. The Startimes Kung Fu Festival set for November 5 will help promote the sport and create awareness around the country. This is the best opportunity we have had as Kung Fu professionals in Kenya to grow our talents. The festival will act as a strong platform to further grow the awareness of the sport while exposing us to the best practices gained from the China based Kung Fu masters, said Joseph Ngaruiya, one of the local trainers based in Kiambu.Muthurwa-based Aphrodice Bakurubusa said: We want to see the sport recognised in the country and we are thankful that somebody has thought about making steps towards ensuring this. We are happy that our efforts have been recognised despite the numerous challenges. This helped us change the lives of former drug addicts as well as job opportunities for some of them in the security sector. The training is geared towards ensuring there is transfer of skills by the experts to the local clubs whom we hope are going to take this opportunity and learn in an effort to further their skills and spread the sport, said StarTimes communications manager Alex Mwaura.The Kungfu festival will be a family fun day to be graced by music heavyweights including Jose Chameleon from Uganda, Jua Cali, Gloria Muliro and Timmy Tdat. Entry will be free.