All is set for a possible final day title duel as the league leader Tusker clash with champions Gor Mahia on the last day of the 2016 campaign on November 19.This was revealed in a release pointing out minor alterations to the fixtures going into the final stretch of an engrossing campaign.With only four points separating the two top sides, the duel could be the decider as to who will be crowned the champions in this season s SportPesa Premier League.Tusker, who have held the advantage for most of the season, have tough clashes with Sony Sugar and AFC Leopards before their encounter with Gor while the three-time back-to-back holders will first have to negotiate tricky fixtures against Mathare United and Muhoroni Youth if they are to have an opportunity to dislodge the brewers at the death. Tusker s match away at Sony Sugar has been moved from Sunday to Saturday this week. The match will be played in Awendo and will be broadcast live on television. Kick-off time changes from 3pm to 2pm. The kick-off time for Muhoroni Youth vs Gor Mahia match has also changed from 3pm to 2pm. Venue and date of match remains the same. The match will be broadcast live on television, read the statement from KPL.The statement further stated that the Tusker vs AFC Leopards match moves from November 5 to November 6. The match will be played at the Afraha Stadium in Nakuru. Kick-off time changes from 3pm to 2pm. The match will be broadcast live on television.This week, relegation-threatened Sofapaka have the opportunity to further their survival chances early as their match against Leopards has been moved to this Friday from Saturday. The match will be played in Machakos and will be broadcast live on television. Kick-off time remains 3pm. The Posta Rangers vs Bandari match moves from Friday to Saturday this week at Kasarani and the kick-off time changes from 2pm to 3pm. Ushuru vs Muhoroni Youth match will be played at Ruaraka on Saturday, 29 October 2016. Kick-off time is 3pm. The match venue has been changed from Kasarani. The previous kick-off time was 2pm. Nairobi City Stars vs Kakamega Homeboyz moves from Saturday to Sunday this week. The match will be played at Kasarani and will be broadcast live on television. Kick-off time changes from 4:15pm to 2pm.