Interior CS Joseph Nkaissery has accused Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho of failing the people of the Coast and misusing taxpayers&rsquo; money. On Tuesday, he said the Mombasa government has received at least Sh32 billion from the exchequer in four years, but there is nothing to show for it. He spoke at the Akamba handicraft industry in Changamwe.Nkaissery was responding to MP Omar Mwinyi, who said the national government has sidelined Mombasa, leading to poor development.The MP said poor politics by national government leaders means lack of jobs, poor health and poor education services. &ldquo;We do not need harambees. We only need the government to open the cheque books and give money for revival of factories like the Kenya Petroleum Refinery,&rdquo; Mwinyi said. &ldquo;Issues of health are disturbing our people. If you go to government hospitals, you have to fundraise. We need free health and education services.&rdquo;Nkaissery told Mwinyi to direct his question to Joho, who he said has been receiving a lot of money from the national government in addition to the revenue the county collects. The CS said health has been devolved. &ldquo;Where does all that money go to? Ask those questions. Or do I have to come here and ask them for you?&rdquo; Nkaissery asked. He told Mwinyi to put aside party affiliation and ask Joho tough questions.Nkaissery asked Auditor General Edward Ouko to tell Kenyans what the county governments are doing with the revenue they collect. He said he is not playing politics, as he is entitled to know how his taxes are being used.On Cord co-principals Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang&rsquo;ula, he said they have no right to talk about land injustices at the Coast. He said the three served as Prime Minister, Vice President and Foreign Affairs minister, respectively, for a long time and didn&rsquo;t solve the problems. They should have used their positions to ensure the Coast people got their land rights. &ldquo;They told you if you elected President Uhuru Kenyatta, your land will be grabbed. Has anyone seen any land grabbed since Uhuru took over? Hasn&rsquo;t he instead been issuing title deeds?&rdquo; Nkaissery asked. But yesterday, Frere MCA Amir Thoya defended Joho&rsquo;s administration, saying Mombasa is a city that serves people from other counties. &ldquo;We have people from Kwale, Taita Taveta, Tana River, Lamu and Kilifi counties coming to the Coast General Hospital for treatment. This means we spend more on our facilities than we get from the national government,&rdquo; he said. The hospital is overwhelmed, Thoya said.