CORD leader Raila Odinga keeps on saying that when a dog barks at you, you don t confront it, you look for the owner. However, many, including politicians, have never challenged this particular piece of unsolicited advice. It is now emerging that the simmering legal fight between Deputy President William Ruto (pictured) and activist Boniface Mwangi is spiralling into a bigger thing - a whirlwind of sorts is gathering. Now Corridors is fully aware that a group of lawyers, about 50, some very senior, have already formed a caucus and are offering unsolicited advice to the activist, from how to handle the case, what information to seek and when to strike. We will keep you updated as the drama unfolds. *********** Has a flamboyant MP from Central Kenya become broke? Well, the lawmaker, who was usually known for sporting tailor-made imported suits and designer shoes has all of a sudden changed his dress code and has been putting on cheap suits and shoes not befitting his status when he joined the National Assembly. Heavily mortgaged after leading a high-profile and flashy lifestyle - including garages full of luxury state-of-the-art vehicles - has reportedly told his colleagues that he is taking home a net of only Sh150,000 after loan deductions. This dejected man appears to be lonely and in deep thought all the time and often talks to himself. Colleagues who have approached him advise him to seek financial advice from experts to manage his issues before the troubles get the better of him - with the elections looming ever closer. ************ Just why is the government not willing to promote more than 60,000 teachers who have advanced their studies with diplomas and degrees for the last three years? Corridors is well informed that while the Teacher s Service Commission has already submitted a budget of about Sh2 billion to the National Treasury to effect the promotions, the Jubilee administration is said not be keen to release the money, despite warnings from State strategists that a backlash is in the offing for the government in the 2017 polls from the teaching fraternity, should the promotions remain a mirage. A section of teachers are said to have opened anti-government social media platforms, including the WhatsApp groups where they campaign against the government over unfulfilled pledges to the teachers. It is only a matter of time before the matter explodes, with the official 2017 campaigns not so far away.