Former Nondescripts RFC secretary Christian Josiah has been appointed club s head coach with immediately effect ahead of the 2015/16 Kenya Cup season that kicks off in November 5. Josiah replaces Kanyi Gitonga, who has since been elevated as the new club vice chairman.He takes charge of the Red Lions at a time when the team is struggling for form after a very disappointing season in the just concluded Kenya Cup. They won five matches, drew two and lost 19 to miss out on the playoffs. The team also skipped the Impala Floodlit tournament, a competition they won four years ago (2012) after edging out Nairobi University s Mean Machine 17-12 in a fiery final. Lenana School coach Willis Ojal becomes the assistant coach while Kevin Were is the team manager and Strength and Conditioning coach assisted by Nduta Maina. Red Lions are in a tricky Conference B alongside last season s runners up Impala Saracens, rivals Kenya Harlequins, Homeboyz, Strathmore Leos and Kenyatta University s Blak Blad.The team has signed new players to boost the team as the transfer season comes to a halt. Former Strathmore Leos captain Eric Kioko and team-mate John Okwara have joined the Red Lions camp alongside Francis Mutuku (Kabras) and Barack Bukusi( Impala). Nondies will play Impala in a Ngong Road derby on November 5 before facing the defending champions Kabras Sugar a week later in Kakamega.Meanwhile, the fifth and last leg of the University Kings of Rugby Sevens will kick off today at Egerton University and has attracted 10 teams including two foreign University of Johannesburg (SA) and Makerere University (Uganda). The annual tournament started with 17 teams and has been held in Nyeri, Njoro, Kaimosi and Wundanyi before winding up at Egerton. The tournament is played on a Seven-a-side format exclusively for university sides.This leg will, however, feature the top 10 teams on the log. The league leaders Mount Kenya University will lead University of Eldoret, University of Nairobi, Kenyatta University, Multimedia, Technical University of Kenya, Dedan Kimathi University, South Eastern University, JKUAT and USIU.