President Uhuru Kenyatta has urged young people to maintain high standards in their service to the country. The President said Kenya needs public servants, professionals and politicians who hate the culture of low standards. Kenya needs public servants, professionals and politicians who have no time for mediocrity, President Kenyatta said.Uhuru spoke just a day after the Sh5 billion health scandal emerged, tarnishing his free maternity flagship project. When some of your elders have given way to laxity and even to mediocrity it fills me with hope to see that you have rejected their ways, President Kenyatta said. The President asked the gold awardees to carry the message that the way of the President's Award Scheme for more than 50 years has been to produce men and women who serve Kenya with distinction. Distinction is about dedication to efficient and effective service delivery, it is about devotion to our values and to national unity; it is about selflessness -- serving others; ultimately, it is about improving the lives of those around us, the President said. The Head of State was speaking yesterday at State House, Nairobi, when he presided over the President s Award-Kenya Gold Award presentation ceremony. He challenged them to champion national unity, saying you know that each of your companions deserves to be treated the same, wherever they come from and regardless of their tribe or religion The President s Award-Kenya is a self-development program available to young people countrywide. It equips the youth with positive life skills to enable them participate in nation building and boost their patriotism.At today s ceremony, some 766 youth people from different schools, colleges and universities received Gold Award certificates while 10 alumni received life membership certificates. During the occasion, President Kenyatta also launched the President s Award-Kenya Foundation and cut a cake to mark the award scheme s 50th anniversary. Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki commended President Kenyatta for spearheading initiatives geared towards empowering the youth.