Jomo Kenyatta s flywhisk, Daniel Moi s fimbo , Oginga Odinga s beaded hat, Mobutu Sese Seko s walking stick, Kenneth Kaunda s short-sleeved suit, Julius Nyerere s Nehru suits all have something in common they were political symbols. These individuals used these symbols to pass a message about who they were or what their political style was. Politics is about perception. It is about how you are seen and how you want others to see you. For Jomo Kenyatta the flywhisk was for his role in shooing away the colonials, it also showed that he would sweep away the problems facing Kenyans. Moi s rungu was about being a defender of the nation, it was a symbol of power and authority particularly from his native Kalenjin community. Odinga showed his African values by taking up the beaded African hat which was used variously by other members of the African political elite at Independence including Jomo Kenyatta himself and Tom Mboya. Once, Oginga Odinga entered the Legislative Council in March 1957 dressed in the African skins much to the chagrin of the Speaker Sir Ferdinand Cavendish-Bentinck who had him thrown out. Odinga shunned all forms of western dress and preferred his own round-necked tunic with short arms. This preference, which he said was best suited for African conditions, would however put him in constant trouble. On October 27, 1960, Oginga Odinga was thrown out of the Three Bells Restaurant in Nairobi for not being properly attired. The restaurant, situated along Victoria street (now Tom Mboya street), was located just below the Kanu headquarters at that time and a hungry Odinga came down and ordered food with three of his colleagues - only to find that he could not be served because the restaurant only served patrons wearing a collar and tie. During the struggle for Independence, the Mau Mau adopted the dread-locked hair to symbolize their cause. Koigi wa Wamwere used the same symbol to prop his struggle against injustices in Kenya. For Koigi, using the dread-locks was a sign that the Mau Mau struggles did not quite end and that he was it s post-independence general. When he was elected Subukia MP he removed the locks in public to show that his struggle was over. However, many of those things that exiled him, continued to happen in the regime he worked for and even after. It is not clear if he intends to grow them back. Mobutu used his walking stick as a symbol of authority and also that he was ready to beat his opponents and run them out of town. Zambia s founding president used his unique short-sleeved short-collared suits that have been eponymously named after him, to show his political style nothing to hide. It is not clear if Uganda s Museveni and Southern Sudan s Kiir and their cowboy hats have any political statements to them but it looks like they are only there to cover the recessed hair line. Political symbols are not limited to clothing or accessories. Even motor vehicles are included. You remember Raila Odinga s Hummer? The tough brutish vehicle was the ultimate symbol of power. The name sounded more like a hammer, which is what Odinga wanted to do if he became president hammer out the problems of this nation or was it build the nation? The Jubilee have adopted the Toyota Prado or Landcruiser as their political symbol. The vehicle represents toughness and the ability to go anywhere in any conditions. The said vehicle has now become a powerful political symbol and indeed the Jubilee party recently mobilized hundreds of them, had them branded, and then displayed on the road in a long convoy. You knew then that Jubilee Party was in town. It also represents (perhaps inadvertently) extravagance, wasteful fuel guzzling and luxury at the expense of mass poverty in this nation. If you are an aspirant, perhaps you want to ride on the already displayed symbols perhaps you want to create your own. It all depends on how you want to be percieved. Whatever the case, it would greatly help bridge the perception gap and could just get you elected.