About two weeks ago, a good friend of mine invited me to a nightclub in the heart of Umoja Innercore. Perhaps a better description of this place is the generic term &lsquo;entertainment spot&rsquo;: Nightclub might evoke images of velvety red carpets, exclusive VIP sections and multi-coloured strobe lighting. There was none of that at Egesa Villa. First, the entrance to Egesa is a black gate, just the size that you would have for a residential house, with those small pedestrian entry doors cut into the main gate. Unless you are a child or short adult &ndash; like me &ndash; you have to stoop to get into one of those. That small door was the one and only entry/exit point. You paid for your ticket a little off to the side, at a tiny slot barricaded with iron bars. We paid, and began the squeeze to get in. You had to grasp your ticket in one hand &ndash; in a manner visible for the menacing bouncers to see &ndash; and allow the mass of humanity behind and beside you to deliver you inside the gate. It was easier if you allowed yourself to kind of hang limp, that way, you would get in relatively unscathed. If you tried to fight for your personal space, well, that would just make you sweat for nothing, and might earn you some inadvertent bruises. The important thing was only that you had enough space to breathe. We got in just as Kevin Omondi Migot &ndash; better known as Dola Kabarry &ndash; was getting on stage. There were maybe 2,000 people at this wood and makuti establishment, and possibly most of them had gone through that heaving and hawing at the little gate just to see him perform. That&rsquo;s the fierce love and loyalty at play in spaces where people really feel &lsquo;at home&rsquo; (and, of course, Kabarry was an amazing performer). In the past two columns, I have argued how voting in Kenya may be a defensive ethnic census founded on fiercely held perceptions, some that fail to stand up to scrutiny, and many that are actually unverifiable. The unstated premise of this argument is that there could actually be a better way, that many progressive and civic-minded commentators long for &ndash; a transition from a politics based on cultural identity to one based on a commitment to democratic values. Some scholars have found such a shift happening among relatively educated, and slightly wealthier Kenyans. One working paper from Afrobarometer found that wealth and education were significant predictors of pro-democracy attitudes. For example, the proportion of highly educated Kenyans who strongly agree that the president should be free to act without constraints is roughly half (6%) the number of uneducated Kenyans who hold the same view (12%). Similarly, highly educated Kenyans are considerably less likely to agree that the government should have a right to ban organisations it dislikes than uneducated Kenyans (23% to 31%), and are more likely to support the principle of multiparty politics. More than two-thirds of highly educated Kenyans welcome multipartyism (68%), but a majority of uneducated Kenyans see political parties as divisive (51%). But there&rsquo;s a catch. First, this group is small demographically. Just a third of Kenyans complete secondary school today &ndash; it was much lower in the past &ndash; and gross tertiary enrolment rates are still below 7%. And the number of Kenyans who earn more than Ksh100,000 (problematic, yes, but let&rsquo;s take as the measure of &lsquo;wealthy&rsquo;) is less than 70,000 people. That is a tiny, tiny drop in the voter ocean. Second, these progressive (&lsquo;middle class&rsquo;) views intersect with ethnicity in a way that is pervasive in Kenya. As a result, this complicates the consolidation of democratic attitudes, and the middle class&rsquo; commitment to democracy is not constant over time, and is easily chipped away by the holding of a national election. Taking the 2013 election as a case study, in which Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto campaigned under a cloud of hostility and criticism from human rights organisations and the international community over their cases at the International Criminal Court. The two sought to overcome the skepticism of &ldquo;fence-sitters&rdquo; in their own communities by setting out to create a siege mentality within the Kikuyu and Kalenjin ethnic groups. It increased the pressure on those in the middle class who may have found the idea of voting for Kenyatta and Ruto distasteful. Based on a number of diary entries from a number of young Kikuyu throughout the campaign, the research describes &ldquo;the key moments at which they felt the need to switch from supporting third-placed presidential hopefuls to supporting one of the two favourites.&rdquo; Early on in the campaign, one informant writes in his diary, &ldquo;If I vote for PK [Peter Kenneth], I will effectively express my displeasure at the current system. I will be voting for a proven performer. Everyone knows that [Peter Kenneth&rsquo;s] Gatanga constituency is one of the most developed. So it&rsquo;s not because PK [is a Kikuyu].&rdquo; Yet as the campaign wore on, the tension over whether to be loyal to one&rsquo;s ethnic group or the public good began to eat away at his informant&rsquo;s confidence, leading to periods of intense soul searching: &ldquo;I hate being in the middle class, how I wish I was not in the middle class.&rdquo; In other words, ethnicity is such a powerful dimension of the Kenyan political imagination that one is may be forced to hang limp, just as was the case at the entrance of Egesa Villa, and let yourself be carried by force of the crowd. Christine Mungai is a writer, journalist and executive editor of Africa data visualiser/ explainer site Africapedia.com