ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has warned that another scandal that dwarfs the Sh781 million NYS scam is in the offing.He alleged it involves cash transfers to the elderly. Mudavadi said the kitty, also meant for orphans, has been allocated billions of shillings, but fictitious names have been entered into the register clandestinely and used to pocket the money. There are complaints by the elderly that they are not receiving their monthly stipends. Because many are illiterate, they are often turned away under false claims their fingerprints don t match the records given, he said.Mudavadi, who has petitioned Parliament to investigate the looming scandal because the anti- corruption agencies are helpless and shy in handling the probe, also accused President Uhuru Kenyatta s administration of handling the current drought situation casually.He said the Sh5.1 billion allocated to resolve the adverse effects of drought in more than 25 counties was, in a way, meant to cut down on the cash transfers and offer alternatives. When Devolution CS Mwangi Kiunjuri cheekily and casually says Sh1.5 billion has been allocated to buy and slaughter weak cows for people to eat, it is a sure pointer to how plunder is being planned amidst misplaced priorities, Mudavadi said. The below-par reasoning means he is admitting a felony was committed and those responsible for those projects should be probed, he said. Given the history of pilferage in drought mitigation projects, it is anyone s guess there is a project drought scandal in the making. Mudavadi criticised the government for waiting for livestock to start dying before intervening. He said it is highly likely these funds will be misused if there are no clear stringent accountability checks. Early this month, I warned of food scarcity due to drought and the fact that the elderly and orphaned were in double jeopardy, as the system transferring their cash is corruptible, Mudavadi said. He said all the boreholes and water pans constructed in arid and semi- arid lands, which cost Kenyans billions of shillings, have dried up, adding that animals die for lack of water, not food.The government has previously admitted that the National Drought Management Authority sent an early warning as early as June. But instead of interventions being made to save livestock in the affected areas, it has delayed as the situation gets dire. Jubilee should be told that starving Kenyans and livestock need immediate rations to survive, not figures, Mudavadi said.