The Digital Learning Programme has been launched at Kosawo Primary School in Kisumu county.Mining PS Ibrahim Mohamed yesterday said, This is one of the social pillars under Vision 2030 to make children ICT savvy and have the required skills to compete in the digital world. He said children should be introduced to IT at an early stage to make them learn faster and to enable them to progress to research.There are 297 students at Kosawo Primary School. Mohamed said the digital programme will extend to students in standard two, all through to standard eight by 2018. He said the tablets are safe because they are locked in a special room. Mohamed said each school under the programme has a pool of trained teachers to teach students how to use the tablets. There is also teachers of trainers in nearby schools who will hold ICT sessions, he said.Mohamed said there has been a problem enrolling some students to the programme because the server only accommodates 50 children per lesson. This causes congestion and many pupils are forced to wait, he said.Mohamed urged the government to distribute more servers to accommodate a larger number of students.The PS also assured teachers the ministry will repair hanging tablets. He said technicians will be employed to visit schools and fix bugs. Last month, ICT PS Sammy Itemere said all public schools will receive tablets by June next year. In the pilot project, 11,500 pupils from 150 schools received tablets, laptops and projectors. Itemere said the government has received 100,000 laptops out of 1.2 million to be distributed.He spoke at Siginon Global Logistics in Mombasa. The tablets are being manufactured in China in partnership with Portugal and Brazil, Itemere said. They will cost Sh28 billion.Three primary schools in Baringo received 263 tablets early this month.The tablets are part of the Jubilee administration s 2013 pledge to give pupils free laptops. County director of Education Daniel Mosbei witnessed the handing over of the tablets, computers and some projectors at AIC Visa Oshwal Primary School in Kabarnet.