An MCA shot twice in the air during&nbsp;Nyacheki by-elections on Wednesday&nbsp; to disperse ODM youths who allegedly attacked him. Bassi Bogetaorio MCA Wright Okenye resorted to this after the youths accosted him, reportedly on suspicion that he had money to bribe voters. The incident took place at the&nbsp;Mochengo polling station in Bobasi constituency. Okenye, who is allied to Jubilee, &nbsp;then fled the scene on foot but was saved by a boda boda operator from the crowd that threatened to lynch him. The crowd&nbsp;also damaged Bonchari MP Zebedeo Opore&rsquo;s vehicle and attacked former DC Abaga Sagero, accusing him of buying votes. Sagero was rescued by police. Kitutu Chache North MP Richard Onyonka was chased from a polling station where he had gone to witness voting. The&nbsp; crowd told him off&nbsp;saying&nbsp;he was not an observer. Nyamache OCPD Japheth Mwirichia said investigations will be launched to establish the reasons for the chaos.Mwirichia said the voting was temporarily disrupted as the people were scared but that no one was injured. &ldquo;We will summon him (Okenye) to explain,&rdquo; he said. The OCPD said calm was later restored and that security will be beefed up at the polling station for the exercise to continue smoothly. He noted the incident was the first since voting began but said he may be forced to camp at the station to prevent any other cases. Nyanza regional elections coordinator Sarah Ogaro said the polling station was opened at 6am and will close at 5 pm for tallying A spot check by the Star found only a few voters at the station at about 11am.The seat fell vacant following the death of former MCA Peter Nyaega in July. Fifteen candidates are competing in the race but Jubilee, KNC and ODM candidates are leading.Aspirants have been accusing each other of voter bribery in the ward which has&nbsp;10,924 registered voters and 23 polling stations.&nbsp; Kitutu Chache North MP Richard Onyonka was also caught up in a melee when irate voters chased him from a polling station during the Nyacheki by-elections.Onyonka had gone to witness the voting but a crowd told him off saying he was not an observer.