IF we are to understand the possible impact of the reported court action, then we need to first consider two factors. What it is that will be brought before the courts, and what sections of which existing laws they might seek to nullify. The law that is of relevance here, the Electoral Laws Amendment Act, affected various laws: The Elections Act; the Political Parties Act; and the IEBC Act.Main story: IEBC trying to block new election law, claims Cord So everything depends on what aspects of these changes are being challenged. We also know that the issues of gravity in this matter included the leaving of office by the IEBC commissioners. Then there was the very contentious issue of the no party hopping rule , which, though it was eventually passed, was seriously challenged in the National Assembly. Then there was the issue of the acquisition and deployment of integrated electronic electoral technology for the next elections. It remains to be seen if these are the issues now being challenged in court. And it is these issues, if brought up, and the determinations of the court, which will define whether we have moved forward or backwards in this matter. But I would think that because we have a law that was created out of political consensus, and was agreed upon in the spirit of ensuring that we move forward our electioneering process. And it was widely felt that implementing it as agreed would infuse confidence in this process not only on the government and the opposition sides, but also among the Kenyan public at large.It will be remembered that President Uhuru Kenyatta and opposition leader Raila Odinga both endorsed the document. And Parliament then passed this document. So I think this is a document that politically pushed the country forward and infused confidence in the electioneering process, and had the potential to drive us towards a peaceful, free, fair and credible election. As such, anything that might be done to unravel what the politicians agreed upon would likely push us back to where we were before, thus bringing back the political contests of the recent past and the tensions that we had before this agreement and this consensus were reached. It however remains every Kenyan s constitutional right to challenge the constitutional veracity of any law in court. With the 2017 general election becoming ever so near, it is hoped that the courts shall determine the issues expeditiously and in good time to allow the already strained preparations to proceed.