Former Deputy Prime Minister and Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi must now escalate his response to frequent insults by Deputy President William Ruto every time he campaigns in Western. Word has it that residents are growing restless following the apparent lack of decorum by DP Ruto, who spares no chance to also hurl insults at the local leaders, whom he wants to join the Jubilee Party by force. The latest round of vitriol was in Shinyalu, when the DP said President Uhuru Kenyatta should leave the region to him to handle. It is on record that Ruto, while at a public function in Baringo two months ago, derogatorily referred to Mudavadi as that Luhya and regularly refers to the residents as hawa wajinga wa hapa chini (the fools from Western).Residents are frustrated after years of relegation of the region to the periphery of economic and social development. In some way, therefore, the DP may be right in referring to the region as hawa wajinga wa hapa chini .The community has for so long been at the mercy of the political elite in successive governments, save for the period former Cherangany MP Masinde Muliro, former Butere MP Martin Shikuku and former Vice President Michael Wamalwa Kijana were active in politics. The past rat pack of leaders who wanted to run for the top seat is no longer the case. Mudavadi has emerged as the front-runner, the reason why Ruto, and, by extension, JP, is having sleepless nights. This is despite the recent revelations about how cheaply they bought some MPs from the region. The politicians were rumoured to have received between Sh3 million and Sh8 million to defect from their former parties.Some of the governors, MPs and MCAs, who accompany the DP, have at some point in the past four years been implicated in graft. The highlight of it being the Bungoma non-carcinogenic wheelbarrows scandal that cost the taxpayer Sh109,000 each. It is here that the rubber meets the road. The truth about Western s political hawkers must be exposed and they must be made to pay for their affinity to blood money. Hawkers by their very nature lack morals: They are driven by the desire to sell their wares.After the Shinyalu rally, stories of how the MPs who accompanied the DP have each been put on a retainer fee of Sh100,000 a week have emerged. The alleged dispenser of the cash, an MP from Mumias, is reportedly on the dole to the tune of Sh500,000 weekly. The same MP faces allegations of having colluded with managers of the Mumias Sugar Company to deprive farmers of their hard-earned earnings. Talk of corrupt leaders vomiting on the shoes of the people they steal from.It is against this backdrop that Mudavadi must take the war to Ruto head-on and remind him of how he is dogged by allegations of corruption and ethnic jingoism. Unlike the President, he has on several occasions been linked to corrupt dealings. The land of Mulembe has thus become the most popular dumping ground for loot. The situation is very much similar to what obtained when Mudavadi served as Finance minister between 1993-97.Now that he is seeking to be President, he should rebut Ruto s forays into Western with strong call to account for his inexhaustible resources. The Church in Western also needs to ride on the moral high ground and reject contributions traceable to questionable land transactions, and diverted public money.