Self-driving cars, domestic robots that obey verbal commands, home appliances that recognise our voices, chatty electronic personal assistants of the likes of Siri; these are just a few examples of thinking machines in our homes. Away from the home, plans are under way for robot-only factories, and there s even talk of autonomous machines of war. Artificial Intelligence, it s all the rage in the times we live in. For me, however, its prevalence conjures up The Terminator.The plot was simple: An indestructible cyborg, aptly named Terminator, is sent from the future to kill a woman to prevent her unborn son from leading humanity in the coming war against the machines. The entity responsible for all this brouhaha is Skynet.Skynet is an Artificial Intelligence defence network plugged in into everything. Does that sound familiar? The only difference being, in the movie, this self-learning, self-thinking AI becomes self-aware. And with war machines at its disposal, it decides that for it to survive, it must annihilate the only other sentient being around, humans.For anyone growing up in the 80s, back when AI was science fiction, The Terminator and Skynet left an indelibly negative impression about AI in general. This would perhaps explain why many of us, those born in the 70s, find cars that drive themselves and toasters that talk disconcerting.Technology is great, but when did advances in technology move from being about assisting humans to being about taking over from humans?We have smart software and robots designed to study our behaviour to predict and anticipate what we want in our daily lives. Stocks are traded by computers and cars are assembled by machines. Soon, machines will take over all our jobs. How do we know these self-learning, thinking machines we re developing will not become self-aware themselves? And if they do, won t the inevitable question they ask be: what do we need these humans for?A meteorite got the dinosaurs, I wonder whether it will be AI that gets us. But hey, what do I know, I m just a guy who watched The Terminator at the age of 10.