County governments at the Coast should team up with the national government to address hunger, regional commissioner Nelson Marwa has said.He said divisions among the two levels of government has affected the mitigations to the problem.Marwa spoke at the Ganze deputy county commissioner s office on Tuesday after assessing the hunger situation in Kaloleni and Ganze subcounties.He called for a harmonised approach in the distribution of relief food. Both levels of government serve the same people. There are no people for the county government and people for the national government. Let s work together to find a solution to the problem. We should keep politics out of this matter, Marwa saidHe also urged well-wishers to donate water and food to affected residents. The private sector should also come in. The situation on the ground is very bad and even as the government is doing its best, let the private sector also do something. We have people with so many water boozers. Let them distribute water to the people instead of selling it to them, the commissioner added.He warned chiefs and county commissioners against locking relief food in stores while people are starving. Members of public should never let chiefs lock food in their offices and if they do it please surround the office and take the food. You cannot keep food in a store while people are hungry. Food should be distributed the same day it arrives, Marwa said.Coast Water Services Board director Joseph Kingi said the situation in Ganze has been made worse because water sources have dried up due to poor rains. At my age of 62 I have never seen such a calamity in Ganze. We have had droughts but none like this one. The government should up its game to save lives in Ganze because the next thing we will hear is people dying, he said.Marwa urged Kingi to ensure the feud between the board and counties is addressed so that people get uninterrupted water supply.He said the water problem in the area is politically motivated and is used to portray some leaders as failures.Kilifi county commissioner Joseph Keter said more than 200,000 residents face starvation and are in dire need of food relief.Some 88,000 are from Ganze subcounty, he added.