Stern action will be taken against public officers who will violate the policy that stipulates they should fly Kenya Airways while on official foreign trips, the Ministry of Transport has warned. Severe action will be taken for breaches, Cabinet Secretary James Macharia said on the phone yesterday. I will be reporting to the Cabinet on compliance. It (Fly Kenya Policy) should be in place by end of November. The Cabinet approved the policy on October 13 during the Seventh Ordinary Meeting chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta, in a renewed effort to save the loss-making national carrier from a further slide.The ministry said it plans to propose amendment to the Public Procurement and Disposal Act to ensure full compliance. Fly Kenya Policy is going to go through Parliament as it's technically an amendment to the procurement regulations. And will this override that as an amendment? Transport PS Irungu Nyakera said. This is not coming in as a directive but a change in law. If successful, increased trips by state officials and delegations could be a shot in the arm for the cash-strapped airline, as it will rake in millions. The Tourism ministry is also on a charm offensive to endear more tourists to Kenya.KQ announced a Sh26.2 billion after-tax loss for the full year ended March 31.Some of the initiatives under the recovery strategy Operation Pride include the sale and sublease of aircrafts, reduction of waste in catering, and renegotiation of some contracts.Launched in November 2015, the 24-month strategy is expected to deliver more than $200 million (Sh20.3billion). The initiative is aimed at turning around the airline, KQ spokesperson Wanjiku Mugo said on the phone.On October 13, KQ management reported, in its advance first-half 2016-17 financial results, that arrivals increased to 2.23 million in the six months to September, compared with 2.14 million the same period last year. The final financial results will be released on October 27.Previous attempts to have public servants fly Kenya Airways have not borne fruits. On July 1, Tourism CS Najib Balala said government ministries had agreed to strictly implement the policy. In a move to support Kenya Airways, Cabinet ... directed all public officers to use Kenya Airways while travelling outside Kenya on official duty, the Cabinet memo stated in part.