ODM leaders from Kisii on Wednesday said the outcome of the Nyacheki by-election in Bobasi constituency is an example of what will happen in next year s polls.They said the people of Nyacheki, Kisii county, have shown how the community will vote.ODM s Naftal Onkoba won with 2,216 votes, while Jubilee s Maxwell Magoma came second with 1,173 votes. Caleb Ong uti was third with 979 and National Vision Party s Peter Moracha came fourth with 695 votes.Fifteen candidates, including a woman, were cleared to contest for the seat which was declared vacant after Peter Nyaega s death on July 25.The ODM leaders said Kenyans will not be influenced by anybody to vote they way they want. They include Kisii Governor James Ongwae, party national treasurer Timothy Bosire, nominated Senator Janet Ong era and Nyamira woman representative Alice Chae.They spoke at Isena Mixed Secondary School, where results for the polls, were announced by returning officer Jackline Osiemo. I want to take this early opportunity to thank the people of Nyacheki for making such a wonderful decision by electing Onkoba as their representative, Ongwae said. It has reached an era where people make their own decision on the kind of leader they want without being coerced. ODM is the party of choice in Kisii and I will do everything possible to ensure leader Hon Raila Odinga gets the support he needs in the region. Bosire said the success of the by-election has proved that Raila will unseat President Uhuru Kenyatta in the general election and bring change and development. Today s win is an indication that ODM and the Cord fraternity are heading in the right direction, he said.Ong era and Chae said the outcome of three by-elections is an indication that Kenyans are tired of poor leadership.ODM also won three ward by-elections out of four held on Wednesday. They won in Nyacheki, Kalokol in Turkana and Mosiro in Kajiado. Jubilee won in Sala ward, Tana River county. The Nyacheki by-election is a blow to a caucus fronting for Kisii unity which campaigned for the Jubilee candidate. The group of nine legislators led by Senator Chris Obure and Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi pitched camp in the ward.Jubilee rejects resultsHowever, Jubilee rejected the outcome of the election. On behalf of Jubilee Party we wish to state that the Nyacheki ward by-election carried out yesterday was marred by serious irregularities involving vote buying, insecurity and blatant disregard of etiquette and civility of the electoral process, said Albert Nyaundi who sent the statement on behalf of Jubilee. We are not conceding defeat in the by-election and will take legal action to have the results nullified. Jubilee is a party of peace and would like to take this opportunity to ask our political opponents to think about our beautiful country Kenya and stem this electoral thuggery even as we are heading to a general election in a few months. Jubilee candidate Magoma, who came second, also dismissed the results, saying the polls were marred by malpractices. I cannot give the by-election a clean bill, he said.Hired ODM youths caused chaos in a number of polling stations and scared his supporters from voting, Magoma said.