The Amani National Congress yesterday dismissed the allegation by the Luhya Elder s Forum that ANC chief Musalia Mudavadi is a Jubilee mole.Mudavadi s spokesman Kibisu Kabatesi rejected elders chairman Patrick Wangamati s comment that the ANC chief is a traitor.He called Wangamati an impediment to a Luhya presidency.Kabatesi said the mole comment was meant to divert attention from the tribulations currently facing Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang ula. We caution the Ford-K leader that Wangamati is an agent tasked with stalking him. Wangamati is good at stage-managing feuds, then pretending to solve them. The current rebellion in Ford-K is typical Wangamati handiwork, he said in a statement yesterday.Kabatesi said Wangamati s tirade against Mudavadi shows senility because he isn t up-to-date .Wangamati on Monday said Mudavadi cannot be trusted to join Cord because he is being used by the Jubilee Party to cause divisions. How can you join our house and start dictating that you want to be the Cord presidential candidate? That is outrageous and beats logic. If you want to join us, wait for direction, he said.Kabatesi said it s well known that the Luhya Council of Elders Wangamati heads is a discredited guns-for-hire outfit strategically created to mislead Luhya leaders on the presidency .He added that Wangamati lacks, and cannot pass the credibility and integrity test to pretend to be an elder and adviser on political matters.Kabatesi urged Wangamati and his forum to account for the money invested in the failed Mulembe Investment Bank, unless they were conmen running a pyramid scheme .Wangamati said Musalia has never been a serious person .He said Musalia should not expect to be Cord s flagbearer because the coalition s three candidates have fought tooth and nail to ensure the party is strong and cannot allow an outsider to join with outrageous demands. Mudavadi is being used by Jubilee to cause cracks in Cord. This will eventually lead to divisions within the coalition. He is a Jubilee mole and cannot be trusted, he said. Wangamati urged Cord leaders to investigate Mudavadi.