ODM has alleged a plot by the Jubilee administration to manipulate the 2017 general elections. The party says the ruling coalition is working on plans to alter the Elections Act in which amendments on the management of the general election and reforms in the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission are contained. Jubilee has sensed defeat in next year s elections and now it wants to recall the Elections Act and propose amendments which will kill the spirit of the original amendments that were agreed upon by the Joint Select Committee, said acting Secretary General Agnes Zani.The proposed amendments were passed by parliament two months ago after being presented to both houses by the Joint Select Committee on IBEC reforms.The recommendations were agreed upon by both Cord and Jubilee after lengthy discussions.Cord had prior to the agreement held a series of street protests to force IEBC commissioners out of office on the basis that they had lost the credibility to oversee next year's polls. Read: IEBC commissioners agree to exit but want 'dignified' pay dealAddressing the media on Sunday at Orange House, Zani said that ODM will resist attempts by the Jubilee administration to arm-twist, control and dictate the electoral body on how to conduct the next general election . We are aware of a plot by Jubilee not to fund the purchase of electoral equipment hence preparing ground for rigging. The initial figure of sh10 billion for the purchase of the equipment is exaggerated to make Kenyans believe that this is going to be such an expensive election, said Zani. IEBC is inflating and exaggerating those figures for no reason. Our experts have calculated and come up with a figure that is no more than sh4 billion, said the national party chairman John Mbadi.Read also: 72% of Kenyans want IEBC commissioners to leave office - SurveyThe party said that IEBC can lease the equipment from countries where elections have been held successfully.They suggested companies like Everyone Counts Incorporated that oversaw successful polls in the US, Robis Elections Company (USA elections), Biolink (Nigerian elections) and Avante (Tanzanian elections). The party leadership also expressed outrage at the Jubilee administration over its appetite to loot public funds. Ever since they came into power, President Kenyatta has overseen the theft of over sh2 Trillion in broad day light in what is now referred to as Kukula Nyama Policy (meat eating policy), said senator Zani. The theft of money meant for the sick particularly by close family members and friends of the president is barbaric, archaic and unacceptable. The president must take responsibility of the theft in the Ministry of Health since those involved are his blood relatives, she added. The party also said that it had unanimously adopted the National Executive Council s report that recommended the expulsion of rebel MPs who defected to other parties.More on this: ODM removes six MPs from committees for working with JubileeThe leaders said the report will be presented to the National Governing Council on Monday for ratification. The meeting, to be held at the Bomas of Kenya in Nairobi, will bring together the party leader Raila Odinga and members the governing council. Major decisions touching on party nominations and the convening of the National Delegates Convention (NDC) will be made, said Zani. Read also: ODM to replace Ababu for deserting duties, punish rebels