My dearly beloved Muthamaki:You terrify me! Genuinely, honestly and totally; and not because, in the letter and spirit of Professor Mahmood Mamdani s Citizen and Subject , as your Gikuyu subject, I am meant to only venerate, adulate and adore you as my ethnic overlord, protector and hegemon. Neither is it because, in the same spirit, as a citizen I am entitled to fundamental, universal, sacrosanct, irreversible, irrevocable and interrelated human rights that I have watched your regime contemptuously trample underfoot. No! It is because to date there are still very few who have been able to discern the real you: Janus-faced with the kindly, friendly, convivial face of Muthamaki masking your real face; the face of kamwana. The latter is the natural heir, high priest and executor of the cult of the colonial and neo-colonial predatory and extractive state. We were first introduced to this face by none other than your political mentor and father, President Daniel Moi the professor of politics. At that point, his protective shadow loomed too large for you to be seen as anything other than his political project: kamwana as part of his surreptitious attempt to succeed himself when the constitutional term limits succeeded in halting his kleptocratic political lordship over Kenya. Over time, some of us who are students of the Kenyan state and society have been fascinated and intrigued at how you successfully adroitly and nimbly recreated yourself as Muthamaki ; ultimately ascending to Kenya s presidency. This is testament to your superior political gifts and skills.Back to why you terrify me: it seems to have eternally escaped everyone but the most discerning that Muthamaki and Kamwana are two sides of the same coin; most cynically, the side that one sees is expertly prestidigitated by you. And so it was that you invited us this October 18 to a State House Summit on Governance and Accountability as Muthamaki. In fact, I noticed your governance adviser Peter Kariuki is even now still publicly insisting that it was a forum designed to engage in candid conversation.I m sorry: neither I nor a number of Kenyans, most notably those who designed the twitter hashtag @crybabypresident, buy that inane babble. For what we were treated to was your no-blame, i-have-done-my-best tirade; a histrionic, haranguing, bullying, excoriating shout-down that really imploded any myth or fable that this was meant to be a conversation. At the end of it, all that was left was a veritable smoking ruin: you clearly exposed that Kenya has no war on corruption going on. Some of us knew that already: what we have been consistently treated to has been a carefully, sedulously and vigorously orchestrated motion-with-no-discernible-movement obscurantist ritual. In your angry rant, you nevertheless suggested that we should offer concrete proposals on how this war should be prosecuted; so, for what is worth, here are my views. First, it is important to acknowledge that corruption, as scholars Patrick Chabal and Jean-Pascal Daloz observe in Africa Works: Disorder as Political Instrument, is not a dysfunctional piece of the colonial and neo-colonial state but one of its central governance instruments. In short, corruption has been perpetually animated by our political elite to preside over a patronage system that continuously recycles and reinvents itself. As John Githongo memorably lamented after his revealing dust up with President Mwai Kibaki s inner circle when he paid inordinate investigative attention to the Anglo-Leasing scandal, KANU handed us a skunk and we took it home as a pet. Second and related to this: it is hence critical to understand and confront corruption not as a happenstance occurring disconnectedly or isolated from our national and historical reality but rather within it. In short, you would need to reject, renounce and repudiate the legacies of Presidents Jomo Kenyatta, Daniel Moi, Mwai Kibaki and your current Uhuruto one. If accepting the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation report has proved so hard, if accepting the central theses of liberty, inclusion, non-discrimination and universal human dignity have thus far been so difficult for you, please forgive me for being skeptical that you would elect to engage in this suggested manner. Third, you should stop feigning helplessness while suggesting that you have done all you can to confront and address corruption. You are the PORK President of the Republic of Kenya. What katiba 2010 largely attempted to tame within the presidency was authoritarian and not political power. Executive power resides in you. In parliament, your political strategist Mutahi Ngunyi educated us that you enjoy the benefit of the Tryranny of Numbers. In the judiciary, the vast majority of the members of the Judicial Service Commission are derived from your cohort. The mainstream media has been so accommodating and subservient to you, outside the fact that your family itself owns a significant media juggernaut, that senior editors such as Dennis Galava and cartoonists such as GADO have paid a heavy price for their indiscretion of articulating views that demands your accountability. Hence, you really do have the power. But do you have the will, dear Muthamaki? Do you have the will to, fourth, stop and desist from hollowing out or compromising the public institutions that are meant to address corruption in Kenya? Witnessing your naked denigration of Auditor General Edward Ouko does not imbue one with an iota of confidence in this respect. Moreover, the fluid relationship you have with the CEO of the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) Halakhe Wako is worrisome to put it mildly; Interdependence has clearly bled into cooptation. Lastly, dear Muthamaki: please accommodate and encourage genuine conversation on this critical national issue. The incendiary and self-righteous monologue that we witnessed at the last Summit is inimical and antithetical to a sober and availing conversation on the matter. Please ask politely and genuinely listen rather than launching a scorching verbal volley. My dearly beloved Muthamaki, please allow me to conclude where I started: you terrify me. I really am afraid that you have plotted and charted a political course that will only see the MV Kenyan perilously lost in the high seas of national social, economic, political and psychological helplessness, oblivion and bankruptcy. This surely is not a future our children should inherit from us.Ngure wa Gachanja is a human rights and democratic governance practitioner. The views expressed in this column are entirely his own and in no way represent or articulate those of any organizations he may be associated with.