Legendary drivers Carl Flash Tundo and Ian Duncan will challenge defending champion Gray Cullen for the season finale JCB Ganatra National Rally Raid Championship in Soysambu.The final raid of the year, which will take place this weekend, has incorporated a new route on the expansive Soysambu Conservancy. The event will be organised by Vintage Club.The first leg is expected to rev off tomorrow (2pm) through to 5pm then restart on Sunday at 9am to 12:30pm according to organizer Raju Chagger. Raid 5 final route check was done last week. The route is completely dry, although the rain clouds are building up, Chagger added . Duncan, who is lying third on the log with155 points, has an outside chance of clinching the coveted car class title although the main suspects will be Flash Tundo and Cullen. Five points separate leader Tundo and champion Cullen for the title which went down to the wire after the penultimate round in Lukenya. We will be taking part in Raid 5 and as I understand, we are neck-and-neck in the points with Flash Tundo. Unfortunately, our championship winning car is in pieces awaiting a new build for next season that will see a lot more power. For this weekend s raid, we are going to borrow Nish Lakhani s car to fight for the car championship. It s a 4000cc Lexus V8 powered Land Rover 110. My navigator and chief builder/mechanic is Jonathan Bovard, who is the key to our success so far, said Gray.The car class has attracted a good chunk of rally drivers including Joost Zuurbier (Land Rover Tornado), Quentin Mitchell (Mitsubishi Pareto) and Geoff Mayes (Land Rover V8). Mayes and his partner Suzanne Zwager are eagerly looking forward to roaring back into action. Their Silverspread Team Meru supported V8 Land Roveris ready and the pair are keen to end the season with a good result. Pete Young and his team have worked tirelessly on the car to get it ready for the end of the season event. The next few weeks will be pretty hectic as immediately after the last rally raid, we need to get ready for the final two KNRC events. We are especially looking forward to returning to Soysambu in memory of my good friend Tom (Cholmolndeley) and intend to go flat out from the start, said Mates.